# D791 “Atlanta” matches method with message to sensational effect
**The basic template in Donald Glover’s genre-bending drama is the fairy tale** 

1 As he drives away from a coffee shop, Marshall Johnson (played by Justin Bartha) is trailed by a mysterious turquoise car. It pulls up at his house, he answers the door—and is served with a reparations claim. His ancestors were slave-owners and, amid a rippling restitution push, Marshall’s life unravels. Colleagues frantically take dna tests to prove they are of blameless stock. “I’m Peruvian,” his estranged wife declares. “You were white yesterday,” he replies.

2 Unsettling, funny and deadly serious, episode four in the third and latest season of “Atlanta” is—at least for white viewers—a kind of satirical anxiety dream. Neither Donald Glover, the show’s creator and lead actor, nor its other regular stars appear. These surprises are to be expected. Since it first aired in 2016, “Atlanta” has conducted an escalating experiment in form, even as it crafts an **offbeat**  exposé of poverty and racial injustice. The perfect fit between method and message makes it a powerful and original work of art.
**offbeat** :不寻常的，不落俗套的，标新立异的

3 At first, the show felt like a **sitcom** —if Samuel Beckett and James Baldwin had written one together. Mr Glover is Earn, a Princeton drop-out whose cousin Alfred (Brian Tyree Henry) raps under the name Paper Boi. Earn wants to be his manager and has a child with Van (Zazie Beetz). Alfred has a **trippy** , philosophical housemate called Darius (LaKeith Stanfield). From the start, “Atlanta” dispensed with the **niceties**  of exposition and tired machinery of plot. **Banality**  bled into surrealism and **hallucination** : an invisible car, a bow-tied shaman on a bus.
**sitcom** ：情景喜剧
**trippy:** (由致幻药引起幻觉产生)迷迷糊糊的
**nicety** :准确, 精确, 细节, 细微的差别
**banality** ：平庸；平淡乏味；陈腐的事物
**hallucination** :幻觉；幻视

4 Things spiralled from there. An entire episode consisted of a mock talk show on which Paper Boi argued with a white activist about trans rights in a dizzying, **multifaceted**  satire; a **spoof**  news report featured a black teenager who identified as a 35-year-old white man. In the second season Darius was trapped in a Gothic mansion by a **psychopathic ** music legend who resembled Michael Jackson. The gun Earn acquired in the season **premiere**  went off in the** finale** , but not as Chekhov might have predicted.
**spoof** :（对电影、电视节目等的）滑稽模仿
**multifaceted** :多方面的
**psychopathic**  :精神病态的
**premiere** :首映；首演
**finale** :结局；（音乐的）终曲；结尾

5 The guiding principle of “Atlanta” seems to be never to compromise with the executives at fx, the network that commissioned it, nor with the audience (in Britain the latest series will be available on Disney+). After a four-year **hiatus** , the new run opens with two unknown men fishing on a haunted lake; most of the first episode tells the tale of a black child adopted by a pair of **sinister ** white women.
**hiatus** :间断；停滞
**sinister**  :邪恶的；险恶的；不祥的
**FX**  is an American pay television channel owned by FX Networks, LLC, a subsidiary of the Disney General Entertainment Content unit of The Walt Disney Company
6 The content is as discomforting as the form. Mostly the **villains**  are not **frothing bigot** s but **presumptuous**  white liberals, like the** condescending**  host of a **Juneteenth**  party in season one. The** microaggressions**  add up, though. Gatekeepers in “Atlanta” will admit its black characters only on** soul-crushing** , **pigeonholing**  terms. Charm and talent are not enough, and nor, for Earn and Van, is love. Their mistakes count triple; small gains are liable to be snatched back. The humour is less laugh or cry than both at once.
**frothing ** :泡沫；废话；废物；无关紧要的小事
**bigot** :顽固者；盲信者；抱偏见的人
**presumptuous** :放肆的；自以为是的
**condescending** :表现出优越感的；居高临下的
**Juneteenth :** 六月节；六月庆典
**microaggression** : a statement, action, or incident regarded as an instance of indirect, subtle, or unintentional discrimination against members of a marginalized group such as a racial or ethnic minority.
**soul-crushing :** used to describe a dream-crushing, breaking, moment.
**pigeonholing** :assign to a particular category or class, especially in a manner that is too rigid or exclusive.

7 Even success isn’t enough, it turns out. Like the actors—above all Mr Glover, not only a “Star Wars” hero but, as Childish Gambino, an internet-breaking musician—in season three the characters have made it and are touring Europe. But good fortune is less an escape than a new kind of trap. In Amsterdam they stumble into a **blackface**  winter festival. At a party in London, an **off-key**  remark is a chance for white **onlooker** s to perform their **piety** . Racism, the show insists, **transcends**  borders and bank accounts.
**blackface** :（演员用）黑油彩，黑脸化装品
**off-key** :走调；不得体；不相宜
**onlooker** :观众；观看者
**piety** :虔诚
**transcend** : 超出

8 The drama’s **elastic**  shape, and a mood both urgent and **woozily**  dreamlike, work because they reflect the unstable conditions that “Atlanta” depicts. If you stop to think about it, the story’s surreal moments are no crazier than its everyday indignities, not least the violence that **throb** s at its margins, often perpetrated by police. The narrative digressions mirror the involuntary **detour** s in lives that are short on autonomy. When **mundane errands**  can lead to disaster, as they do for Alfred and Earn, or a day can begin as** screwball ** comedy and** lurch into**  horror, established genres won’t do.
**elastic** :有弹性的；有弹力的；灵活的
**woozy** :unsteady, dizzy, or dazed.
**perpetrate** ：施(恶行)；犯(过失等)
**throb** :跳动；阵阵的疼痛
**detour** :绕道；迂回
**mundane**  ：单调的；平凡的
**errand:** 差事
**screwball**  :怪人；狂人
**lurch** :摇晃；倾斜；东倒西歪
**lurch into** :陷入

9 Except perhaps one. The basic template in “Atlanta”—in which fantasy and reality blur, anything can happen yet the ending seems **predetermined** —is the fairy tale. As with the consoling repetitions of the **sitcom** , fairy tales run on a loop, but sometimes the effect is **nightmarish** . Like Hansel and Gretel, Mr Glover’s characters keep getting stuck—in a** spooky**  forest, **mazy ** nightclub or **depraved**  **frat**  house. They search for a way out, but sense that there isn’t one. They are caught in a story written long ago.
**predetermined** ：预先约定的
**sitcom** ：情景喜剧
**nightmarish** ：恶梦[梦魇]似的
**spooky** ：怪异吓人的；阴森可怖的
**mazy ** ：弯曲回绕的；纠缠不清的；为难的；困惑的
**depraved** ：堕落的, 颓废的, 卑鄙的
**frat house** ：兄弟会；大学生联谊会
