# # D820 A hawk on the wing I
1.“The invasion of Ukraine by Vladimir Putin was a massive punctuation point in post­war history,”says Boris Johnson, the British prime minister. “We are now in a new era.” One sign of this new age came on May 11th, when Mr Johnson travelled first to Sweden and then to Finland to sign “solemn declarations” with the leaders of both countries; in each case the** signatories** affirmed that should either one be attacked, the other would be ready to respond with military aid. Another sign came the next day, when Finland’s leaders announced they favoured joining nato.

> **signatory**: 签署者；签署国

2.The events of this week **underscore** the dramatic changes in Europe’s security landscape since Mr Putin’s decision to invade on February 24th. They also **shed light on** Britain’s place in Europe and illustrate Mr Johnson’s frustrating **duality**—bold abroad and timid at home.

> **underscore**:强调；在…下面划线
> **shed light on**:解释；将…弄明白；照亮
> **duality**:双重性；二元性

3. Start with the pacts. Finland was neutral in the cold war, and Sweden hasn’t fought a big conventional war in 200 years.With both countries now moving swiftly towards  nato membership, the agreements with Britain offer particular **reassurance **against Russian attack during the “grey­zone period” between applying to join and ratification of their membership. If they do join the alliance, “it would be a complete** repudiation** of Putin’s assumptions,” says Mr Johnson, speaking to  The Economist on the plane back to London.

> **reassurance **:保证
> **repudiation**:批判；拒绝；(国家,政府的)赖债

4.**Sceptics** might say that making commitments is easy when the risk of a conventional assault is low, at least in the immediate future. Russia’s army is **bogged down** in Ukraine and barely has the manpower to advance in the Donbas region, let alone turn its attention to Finland and Sweden. “Looking at Russian military forces right now, they are rather occupied in Ukraine,” noted Magdalena Andersson, the Swedish prime minister.

> **Sceptic**:怀疑论者
> **bog down**:陷入困境；陷入僵局

5.Finnish and Swedish officials think that a far bigger risk is a prolonged and intense campaign of “hybrid” warfare—meaning cyber­-attacks on critical infrastructure, incursions by Russian war-planes, disinformation campaigns and the like. The agreements cover closer co­operation in areas such as intelligence ­sharing and cyber­ security, and are meant to stand in** perpetuity**. “Are we safer with this agreement? Yes, we are. Of course this means something,” Ms Andersson concluded.

> **perpetuity:**永远；不朽

6.The deals fit with Britain’s evolution over the past decade into one of the most active defenders of  nato’s northern flank and eastern front. It is central to a network of bilateral pacts and groupings, including the **Joint Expeditionary Force**, a cluster of ten states around the Baltic and the North Sea. Britain** shunned** a treaty on foreign policy and security when it left the eu. As a result, says Richard Whitman of the University of Kent, its policy in Europe resembles a “Polo mint”: it has a hard outer rim, and a hole in the middle.

> **rim**:边缘；车圈
> **Joint Expeditionary Force**:英国远征军联合部队
> **shun**:躲开(危险等)

7.**Hard­-edged** is a good way of describing Mr Johnson’s view of the war in Ukraine. Dmytro Kuleba, Ukraine’s foreign minister, has raised the country’s goals to nothing less than the liberation of the territories invaded by Russia in 2014. Ukraine’s war aims are a matter for them, but that aspiration is “entirely logical”, Mr Johnson says. Ukrainians feel they cannot “negotiate sensibly with someone who is in the process of trying to** devour** their country. And I have to say I agree with them. So everyone is then forced into the same logical position, which is the only answer is to keep going until Putin is back to the **status quo ante** of February 24th—at least.”

> **Hard­-edged**:锋芒毕露的
> **devour**:吞没；毁灭
> **status quo ante:**以前的状态；以前状况

