---
description: Kuaishou’s shares surge on the video app’s stockmarket debut
---

# Day 353

## The firm is taking on TikTok and its Chinese sibling

1“WE AIM to be the most customer-obsessed company in the world,” declares the **opening line** in the 700-page prospectus from Kuaishou, a Chinese video app. The firm, launched a decade ago by a former software engineer at Google and another at Hewlett-Packard, boasts more than 300m daily active users, up from an average of just 67m in 2017. On February 5th Kuaishou listed in Hong Kong to **great fanfare**: share prices surged by 161% after the first day, valuing the company at a cool $159bn. That instantly lifted it above better-known social-media titans like Twitter \(worth $45bn\) and Snap \($87bn\). Kuaishou’s shares were more than 1,200 times oversubscribed by retail investors—a record for the city’s **bourse**.

> _**take on**_ someone/something definition: to fight or compete against someone or something: .
>
> **opening line**: 开场白
>
> **great fanfare**:大张旗鼓
>
> The **bourse** of a European city or region is its stock exchange. \(欧洲的\)证券交易所
>
> 介绍快手上市背景，股票受投资者追捧，市值飞速上涨。

2 Kuaishou’s revenues have soared in recent years, reaching 25bn yuan \($3.6bn\) in the first six months of 2020, up by nearly half on the previous year. Just over two-thirds of this came from what the firm calls “live-stream gifting”. It hosted nearly 1bn live-streaming sessions in that period, **taking a cut** on “tips” that viewers shower on their favourite live-streamers. A tip can be as small as 10 fen \(1.5 cents\) or as generous as 2,000 yuan. Performers film themselves singing, dancing, otherwise prancing or just sunbathing. \(Pornography is strictly prohibited.\) New stars can expect to **fork half of their tips over** to the platform.

> "To **take a cut**" means to take a share of the money.
>
> **fork over** something definition: to give away something, esp. on demand.
>
> 快手近几年收入激增。收入主要来自于直播礼物的平台抽成，最高的可能超过50%。

3 Amid this **exuberance** two threats loom. The first comes from China’s increasingly hands-on regulators \(see article\). In November they mandated that video apps like Kuaishou impose daily and monthly limits on the amount that users can tip live-streamers. Moreover, to prevent impressionable **minors** from being coaxed into sponsoring **cunning** broadcasters, platforms have been instructed to perform tougher background checks on users with such tools as facial-recognition technology. Bureaucrats in Beijing have yet to work out precisely what Kuaishou’s daily and monthly ceilings ought to be. But growth will probably slow down once the details are **hashed out.**

> **Exuberance** is behaviour that is energetic, excited, and cheerful. 快乐有活力的行为
>
> Someone who is **cunning** has the ability to achieve things in a clever way, often by deceiving other people. 狡猾的
>
> **hash out** something definition: to talk about something with someone else in order to reach agreement about it: e.g. hash out a solution.
>
> **minor** : 未成年人
>
> 繁荣之下，危机四伏。首当其冲的是来自监管部门的压力。平台被限制打赏的规模，并对未成年人严加看管。一旦具体措施出台，快手的增长可能会减缓。

4 Douyin, TikTok’s Chinese sister app and Kuaishou’s **arch-rival**, is better insulated from the regulatory crackdown. Like Kuaishou, it operates a live-streaming business. But unlike its competitor, it earns most of its revenues from online ads, which the new rules do not affect. For comparison, adverts accounted for just 28% of Kuaishou’s **revenue mix** in the first half of 2020. The company may now try to raise that share. To do so Kuaishou will have to overcome the somewhat outdated perception that its users are disproportionately folk living in small cities and rural areas with less money to buy advertised wares.

> **arch-rival:** 主要竞争对手，劲敌
>
> **revenue mix** :收入构成
>
> 劲敌抖音面对监管压力更小，因为它的主要营收来自广告。快手希望提升自己的广告收入占比，但快手的乡村用户群体结构是一个比较大的障碍。

5 The second threat is the potential for a price war between Kuaishou and Douyin. For both platforms, user growth is largely a function of the appeal of their video content, which in turn depends on the **calibre** of the producers behind it. A race to the bottom, whereby each firm lowers its “take rate” on tips and ad sales to lure popular broadcasters from the other app, would depress margins.

> The **calibre** **of** a person is the quality or standard of their ability or intelligence, especially when this is high. 能力; 才干
>

> 第二个风险是潜在的价格战，这可能会影响到快手的盈利。毕竟平台增长主要还是看内容制作者的质量，平台竞争将会让渡更多的利益给内容制作者。
>

6 At the moment neither company has a particular incentive to shatter the cosy duopoly, points out Jeffrey Young of Smart Grandly Asset Management, an investment firm. But the possible arrival of a big competitor—not inconceivable in China’s **effervescent** e-economy—could disrupt this **equilibrium**, Mr Young suggests.

> **Equilibrium** is a balance between several different influences or aspects of a situation. 平衡,平静
>
> An **effervescent** liquid is one that contains or releases bubbles of gas. \(液体\)起泡的
>
> 虽然两个平台还维持着微妙的平衡，但是在中国这样竞争激烈的互联网环境，保不准突然冒出其它的有力竞争者。

7 Despite its domestic challenges \(or maybe because of them\), Kuaishou is proceeding apace with its global ambitions. The international version of its app, Kwai, claims “tens of millions” of users in markets from Brazil and Colombia to Malaysia and Vietnam. It still lacks the name-recognition of TikTok, though that may prove to be a blessing in disguise. Kwai has thus far avoided the sort of political scrutiny that its better-known rival has attracted in many foreign markets. ■

> 快手同时也在加快全球化步伐，以Kwai这个海外版本在多个国家攻城略地。并且Kwai的知名度还不如Tiktok，暂未遭遇政治上的风险。

