---
description:  What happened to the “Salvator Mundi”?
---

# D420 What happened to the “Salvator Mundi”?

### The recently rediscovered painting made headlines in 2017 when it fetched $450m at auction. Then it vanished again

> 《救世主》（[意大利语](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/義大利語)：Salvator Mundi）是[列奥纳多·达·芬奇](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/列奥纳多·达·芬奇)的其中一幅画作。过去它曾隐没很长一段时间，甚至一度被认为只是达·芬奇弟子的作品。2004年，[纽约](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/紐約)的罗伯特·西蒙（Robert Simon）以低价买下该画作。并交由专家修复与鉴定后，2011年终于重现在世人面前。是一模拟[肖像画](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/肖像畫)制作的[空想](https://zh.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=空想&action=edit&redlink=1)作品。

 

1 EVEN BY THE standards of blockbuster shows, “Leonardo da Vinci” promised to be one to remember. The exhibition, which ran for four months from October 2019, marked the 500th anniversary of the master’s death and was hosted at the Louvre, a museum which owns more of the painter’s work than any other institution. Two years earlier a recently rediscovered artwork of Jesus Christ by da Vinci had fetched $450m at auction, a record sum. Dubbed the “male Mona Lisa”, “Salvator Mundi” would be displayed beside its female counterpart for the first time at the Louvre. That’s what the buyer hoped, at least: when the show opened, there was no sign of the picture even though it was included in t`he exhibition **catalogue** (which had been printed some time beforehand).

> A **catalogue** is a list of things such as the goods you can buy from a particular company, the objects in a museum, or the books in a library. 目录

 

2 The painting came from nowhere and has now effectively disappeared again. Antoine Vitkine, a French journalist and film-maker, explains why in “The Saviour for Sale”, a controversial new documentary. To make sense of a complex story, Mr Vitkine opts for a **chronological** narrative, but each segment is centred on a particular individual: “The Dealer”, “The Mercenary” and so on. He begins with Robert Simon, a New York art dealer who in 2005 paid $1,175 at an **attic sale** in New Orleans for a dirty painting he hadn’t even seen. After a **painstaking** restoration, some began whispering that it might be by the master himself.

> If things are described or shown in **chronological** order, they are described or shown in the order in which they happened. 按时间顺序排列的
>
> An **attic** is a room at the top of a house just below the roof. 阁楼
>
> **attic sale** : 类似二手市场，闲置
>
> A **painstaking** search, examination, or investigation is done extremely carefully and thoroughly. 十分小心的; 极其仔细的

 

3 An ambitious British **curator** named Luke Syson was determined to make this new discovery the centrepiece of a da Vinci exhibition being planned for 2011 at the National Gallery in London. After the show closed, Mr Simon put the picture up for sale. One man who heard about it was Dmitry Rybolovlev, a deeply religious Russian who had made his fortune from **potassium** fertilisers. Working for “The **Oligarch**”, as Mr Rybolovlev is called in the film, was “**The Right-Hand Man**”, a Swiss art dealer and businessman named Yves Bouvier. Mr Bouvier told Mr Rybolovlev he had negotiated the price of the artwork down to just $127.5m. The picture was his. (It is alleged that Mr Bouvier paid around $80m for it; Mr Rybolovlev has sued and the case involves courts in several countries.)

> A **curator** is someone who is in charge of the objects or works of art in a museum or art gallery. (博物馆、美术馆的) 馆长
>
> **Potassium** is a soft silvery-white chemical element that occurs mainly in compounds. These compounds are used in making such things as glass, soap, and fertilizers. 钾
>
> an **oligarch** is a "member of an oligarchy; a person who is part of a small group holding power in a state".寡头统治者
>
> olig(独自)+arch(统治) 在政治术语anarchy, monarch, monarchy 和**oligarch** 中,有个常 用词根arch。它来自希腊名词arkhos,意 rule (统治)。
>
> **the right-hand man**:an indispensable helper or chief assistant.得力助手、左膀右臂

 

4 The documentary says that, **cross** and feeling **duped**, Mr Rybolovlev fell out of love with the painting and decided to sell it on again. Enter Christie’s, which took the picture on a whirlwind international tour. The auction house offered it for sale in its grandest contemporary-art auction in New York, which, as one commentator in the film tells Mr Vitkine, attracts “new buyers who don’t know about attribution and restoration, who don’t buy Old Masters, but who would go for a [big] name”. The possibility that da Vinci might only have contributed to the work or that it was painted by his workshop was not mentioned. Jussi Pylkkanen, Christie’s worldwide president and the auctioneer, said that the painting had previously been “in the collections of three kings of England”.

> Someone who is **cross** is angry or irritated. 愤怒的
>
> If a person **dupes** you, they trick you into doing something or into believing something which is not true. 欺骗

 

5“The Saviour for Sale” captures the **heady** excitement of that auction, as the “Salvator Mundi” sold for almost five times its pre-sale estimate. Within days, American intelligence sources told the **New York Times** that Prince Badr bin Abdullah had purchased the painting, acting as an intermediary for Muhammad bin Salman, his cousin and the crown prince of Saudi Arabia. Many cultural commentators assumed that the work was intended as a draw for Louvre Abu Dhabi, a lavish new museum which was opening that month. [As part of a lengthy contract](https://www.economist.com/middle-east-and-africa/2017/11/09/louvre-abu-dhabi-is-the-gulfs-new-go-to-cultural-destination), the Louvre receives money from the Abu Dhabi **outpost** in exchange for lending artworks and advising them on their own acquisitions.

> A **heady** drink, atmosphere, or experience strongly affects your senses, for example, by making you feel drunk or excited. 令人陶醉的
>
> outpost: a remote part of a country or empire.

 

6 In the final ten minutes of Mr Vitkine’s film, a senior French government source, filmed in a theatrical white mask to hide his identity, explains what happened next and why “Salvator Mundi” was a no-show at the exhibition. The Louvre is one of the few museums in the world with access to a particle accelerator, a machine that allows for careful and in-depth analysis of artworks. The source claims that what specialists saw when they examined the picture was that, though it could still claim to be a painting by da Vinci, several other studio artists also contributed to the work. Vincent Delieuvin, a curator, offered a different view in a presentation booklet intended to accompany the exhibition. The Louvre’s scientific enquiries supported the idea that the “Salvator Mundi” was an “**autograph** work” (ie, by da Vinci’s hand) but that it had been “sadly damaged by the poor conservation of the work and by previous restorations which were too brutal”.

> An **autograph** is the signature of someone famous that is specially written for a fan to keep. (名人的) 签名

 

7 There may be a more **prosaic** reason for the painting’s absence. According to the French government insider, Saudi Arabia wanted “Salvator Mundi” to be hung beside the “Mona Lisa” in order to showcase the majesty of their new purchase. When the Louvre refused—because the “Mona Lisa” has its own room and security and was not going to be moved for the da Vinci show—the loan was denied. The **Art Newspaper** says the Louvre withdrew the booklet as the museum is not allowed to write about artworks it has not exhibited.

> Something that is **prosaic** is dull and uninteresting. 枯燥乏味的

 

8 Mr Vitkine has persuaded an impressive number of people to talk to him on camera and what they have to say is **riveting**: “The Saviour for Sale” sometimes feels like a thriller rather than a documentary. But the story is not over yet. It is not clear what has become of the picture or what its future might be. As for what the Louvre’s decision means for Saudi-French relations—for the **rapport** between Emmanuel Macron and the Saudi prince, for France’s arms sales to the Gulf, for French diplomacy in the region and for the future of the great culture projects France hoped to build in Saudi Arabia—all of that would be a subject for another film.

**“The Saviour For Sale” will be broadcast on France 5 on April 13th**

> If you describe something as **riveting**, you mean that it is extremely interesting and exciting, and that it holds your attention completely. 引人入胜的
>
> If two people or groups have a **rapport**, they have a good relationship in which they are able to understand each other's ideas or feelings very well. 融洽

> 罗浮宫阿布扎比博物馆是一家阿拉伯联合酋长国的博物馆，位于阿布扎比。该博物馆于2017年11月8日由法国总统马克龙、阿拉伯联合酋长国副总统穆罕默德·本·拉希德·阿勒马克图姆以及阿布扎比王储穆罕默德·本·扎耶德·阿勒纳赫扬揭幕。该博物馆是阿布扎比市与法国政府之间三十年协议的一部分

 





