---
description: Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, is dead
---

# D415 Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, is dead

## The husband of Queen Elizabeth II was 99



1 HIS HUGE, red hands were what you noticed first. On his wrist the plain watch with its brown leather strap, and the copper **bracelet** he wore to ease the **rheumatism** that so plagued his later years. Moulded by his genes and by life, those hands, big as lion-paws, in turn moulded those around him: his wife, their children, her **subjects**.

> A **bracelet** is a chain or band, usually made of metal, that you wear around your wrist as jewellery. 手镯

> **Rheumatism** is an illness that makes your joints or muscles stiff and painful. Older people, especially, suffer from rheumatism. 风湿病

> N-COUNT可数名词The people who live in or belong to a particular country, usually one ruled by a monarch, are the **subjects** of that monarch or country. (常指君主制国家的) 臣民



2 Had Philip been the soft-skinned English **aristocrat** that the king and queen would have preferred for their elder daughter, Elizabeth, it would have been different. But he was an outsider. By the time he married his **second cousin once removed**, at the age of 26, he had lost virtually all his early roots. His father was dead; his mother, having suffered a mental breakdown, had withdrawn into a religious order. She wore a grey **habit** to the end of her life. Three of his four sisters married Nazis; none was welcome at the royal wedding in Westminster **Abbey** just after the end of the war.

> An **aristocrat** is someone whose family has a high social rank, especially someone who has a title. 贵族

> Your **second cousin once removed** is the child (or parent) of your **second cousin**

> First cousins share a grandparent, second cousins share a great-grandparent, third cousins share a great-great-grandparent, and so on. The degree of cousinhood ("first," "second," etc.) denotes the number of generations between two cousins and their nearest common ancestor.

> The term "removed" refers to the number of generations separating the cousins themselves. So your first cousin once removed is the child (or parent) of your first cousin. Your second cousin once removed is the child (or parent) of your second cousin. And your first cousin twice removed is the grandchild (or grandparent) of your first cousin.

> **habit**: a long, loose garment worn by a member of a religious order.

> An **abbey** is a church with buildings attached to it in which monks or nuns live or used to live. 修道院



3 By then, Philip had also lost his birthright, his home, his name, nationality and church. Even his birthday—fixed first in the Julian calendar and then in the Gregorian—was no longer the same. The 20th century would test Britain’s **monarchy** with divorce, democracy and **disdain**. But the man who held its future in those hands had an immigrant’s taste for tradition.

> The **monarchy** is used to refer to the monarch and his or her family. 王室

> If you **disdain** someone or something, you regard them with disdain. 蔑视



4 He came to Britain by accident. He was born in 1921 on the island of Corfu. His father, son of the king of Greece, was of Danish and Russian origin mainly; his **maternal grandfather** grew up in Austria and Germany, and became British. As a toddler, Philip was carried aboard ship in an orange **crate** when his family was **banished** from Greece. Until he was ten they lived in exile in St Cloud, a leafy Paris suburb.

> **maternal grandfather** : 外公，外祖父

> **Maternal** is used to describe things that relate to the mother of a baby. 母亲的

> If you **disdain** someone or something, you regard them with disdain. 蔑视

> If someone or something **is banished** **from** a place or area of activity, they are sent away from it and prevented from entering it. 驱逐

> 

5 His German family wanted him brought up in Germany, and sent him to the school they had founded at Schloss Salem in Baden-Württemberg. But Hitler’s rise to power **put paid to** that: the Jewish headmaster, Kurt Hahn, was forced to flee to Scotland, where he founded a new school, Gordonstoun, with a **forthright** philosophy and the motto, “More is in you (than you think).” As a schoolboy Philip was often naughty, though never nasty. He developed a strong sense of public duty and a taste for speed; and quickly learned to sail, often being given the job of **galley** cook as he seemed immune to seasickness.

> **put paid to :**结束；了结

> If you describe someone as **forthright**, you admire them because they show clearly and strongly what they think and feel. 直率的

> On a ship or aircraft, the **galley** is the kitchen. (船或飞机上的) 厨房



6 At 18 he went on to Dartmouth Naval College in the south of England, where he was named best **cadet**. When the second world war broke out that same year, he sailed to Colombo and joined a lumbering battleship escorting convoys of Australian troopships bound for Egypt. On board Philip passed some of his time filling out Admiralty Form s. 519, “Journal for Use of Junior Officers”, a ruggedly bound volume with marbled endpapers. The **entries** reveal a passion for technicalities and a **wayward**ness with spelling. Hitler’s Axis allies are consistently “Italiens”; buoys pop up as “bouys”; he writes “misstakes”, and “exept”. On the title page he signed his name, Philip, Prince of Greece; the men called him Pog. In the evenings he was “Captain’s Doggie” and one of his duties was to make the cocoa.

> A **cadet** is a young man or woman who is being trained in the armed services or the police force. (军校或警校的) 学员

> N-COUNT可数名词An **entry** in a diary, account book, computer file, or reference book is a short piece of writing in it. (日记中的) 简短记录; (账簿中的) 账目; (计算机文档或参考书中的) 条目

> If you describe a person or their behaviour as **wayward**, you mean that they behave in a selfish, bad, or unpredictable way, and are difficult to control. 任性的



7 Only after Italy’s invasion of Greece in June 1940 did Philip begin to **see any action**. And when it came, it was dramatic. His ship, *HMS Valiant*, was at the centre of the battle that destroyed the Italian navy. Philip was mentioned in dispatches, and emerged from the war one of the youngest first lieutenants. In Buckingham Palace the teenage Princess Elizabeth kept a photograph on her dressing-table of the bearded young officer serving in her father’s navy, her cousin. He bore a striking resemblance to her grandfather, King George V.

> **see action** : to fight in a battle 



**8 Keeping calm and carrying on**

Later, his staff often described him as “bracing”. When asked by a (female) journalist about rumours of a colourful private life in the 1960s, he barked: “Good God, woman! I don’t know what sort of **company you keep**.” But he was good at getting things done: his Duke of Edinburgh Award Scheme for teenagers now operates in over 130 countries.

> The entire stock phrase in English is "**You**'re known by the **company you keep**." It is critical or at least sarcastic, **meaning** that **you** are judged by the people **you** associate with, in this case not very nice people.



9 In public his job was to walk two steps behind his wife, trying not always successfully to make small talk. In private, he took the lead and urged her to spread her wings with the words, “Come on, Lilibet.” His passport listed him as a “Prince of the Royal House”, but he cast himself as a moderniser. Within a few days of moving into Buckingham Palace he began an “Organisation and Methods Review”. He visited every one of its 600-or-so rooms and asked each member of staff what they did there and why.



10 Later he extended his brief. His **first-floor** study there offered a panoramic view of his interests. On a long wall of bookcases was **stowed** his collection of model ships in glass cases. Between them stood the books that had caught his attention—on wildlife, **anthropology**, history, naval strategy, sailing. In a corner were the biographies that had been written about him. And on a table by a window stood an array of family photographs in black and white. Lots of relatives, but no children, other than a big, misty colour portrait of the **doughty** Princess Anne taken in the 1970s. She was his favourite of the four children, the one most like him. His sons **exasperated** him, none more than the sensitive Charles whom he sent to Gordonstoun despite knowing he would be bullied.

> [英国英语]可数名词**The** **first floor** of a building is the floor immediately above the one at ground level. 二楼

> If you **stow** something somewhere, you carefully put it there until it is needed. 收藏

> **Anthropology** is the scientific study of people, society, and culture. 人类学

> If you describe someone as a **doughty** fighter, you mean they are brave, determined, and not easily defeated. 强悍的

> If you describe a person as **exasperated**, you mean that they are frustrated or angry because of something that is happening or something that another person is doing. 恼怒的





11 Marriage brought the young, rootless prince a home, a country, a passport, a new religion and the first real stability in his life. In return, the immigrant boy gave it his total support. Philip was the first of the senior peers to pay **homage** after the queen’s **coronation** at Westminster Abbey, where they had married just over five years earlier. “I Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, do become your liege man of life and limb and of earthly **worship**,” he promised, kneeling before her and placing his large hands between hers. “And faith and truth I will bear **unto** you, to live and die against all manner of folks. So help me God.” Rising to his feet, he touched his fingers to her crown and kissed her on the cheek.

> **Homage** is respect shown toward someone or something you admire, or to a person in authority. 崇敬

> A **coronation** is the ceremony at which a king or queen is crowned. (国王或女王的) 加冕仪式

> If you **worship** a god, you show your respect to the god, for example, by saying prayers. 敬奉



详见英剧 CROWN 

延伸阅读：[英国朋友谈菲利普亲王去世](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzA4OTk1MjA0MA==&mid=2674333046&idx=1&sn=da72573a5c62b376609f83cb95b0217a&chksm=8a80af31bdf72627b25e74a5ee0299ae29012d68496b81fde0f06ec5c2ef1864d2d0b5615492&mpshare=1&srcid=0410w06wElyn3eeIeExoOf5b&sharer_sharetime=1618107419854&sharer_shareid=26f9f0f4708bba258bfce6273d201349&from=singlemessage&scene=1&subscene=10000&clicktime=1618158240&enterid=1618158240&ascene=1&devicetype=android-28&version=27000f50&nettype=ctnet&abtest_cookie=AAACAA==&lang=en&exportkey=AW9CLy7aSWll6WXN76ib2x0=&pass_ticket=aOePvAZgT6yd6roJOW8HUeb6fSjGIQpxWdTYjNSPQa9zkuzC3lRkuETNkQ9reuHE&wx_header=1)





