---
description: Intel should beware of becoming a national champion
---

# D407 Intel should beware of becoming a national champion

## Its bet on making semiconductors in America is a big gamble



1 Data may be the new oil, but it is semiconductors—the brains of the data economy—that these days vie with hydrocarbons as the business world’s biggest economic flashpoint. Like crude, the $500bn computer-chip industry is essential to industrial economies. It is regularly **buffeted**, as are oilmen, by excesses of supply and demand. And it is at the **vortex** of intense geopolitical rivalries. Its main wellspring, though, is not in the Persian Gulf, but on an island about 175km (110 miles) across the water from China. What is more, the Communist Party in Beijing claims the island in question, Taiwan, as part of its territory. That puts the semiconductor industry at the heart of the Sino-American power struggle—a uniquely uncomfortable place to be.

> A **vortex** is a mass of wind or water that spins around so fast that it pulls objects down into its empty centre. (风或水流形成的)漩涡



2 It is in this context that the recent $20bn commitment by Intel, America’s biggest chipmaker, to revitalise semiconductor production in America should be seen. With some **fanfare**, its new boss, Pat Gelsinger, is placing a flag on his home turf, hoping to help reclaim the dynamism that the country which invented semiconductors has lost to chip factories in Taiwan and South Korea. It comes amid a surge of “chip nationalism”, in which governments from East to West are offering **lavish** subsidies for such “fabs”. It coincides with a severe chip shortage that—though it mostly affects microprocessors used in cars, which Intel does not sell—has brought home the danger of supply disruptions. And it follows America’s kneecapping of Huawei, a Chinese maker of networking gear, by restricting its access to American technology, including semiconductors.

>  If something happens with a **fanfare**, it happens or is announced with a lot of publicity.. 大张旗鼓的宣传

> If you say that someone is **lavish** in the way they behave, you mean that they give, spend, or use a lot of something. 慷慨的

 

3 No one could accuse Intel of **squandering** a geopolitical **tailwind**. But Mr Gelsinger’s plan to build two new fabs in Arizona is also a gamble. It extends Intel’s traditional business of making its own chips to making those blueprinted by other American companies, including Amazon, which designs the processors used in its cloud-computing data centres, and Qualcomm, which specialises in semiconductors for mobile telephony. The decision to become part contract manufacturer rather than designing chips and outsourcing production, which rivals such as AMD have done successfully, requires a huge **outlay** that investors may find hard to **stomach**. Intel already spends about $28bn a year on capital investments, research and development.

>  V-T及物动词If you **squander** money, resources, or opportunities, you waste them. 浪费 (金钱、资源或机会)

> A **tailwind** is a wind that is blowing from behind an aeroplane, boat, or other vehicle, making it move faster. 顺风

> **Outlay** is the amount of money that you have to spend in order to buy something or start a project. (必要的) 费用

> If you cannot **stomach** something, you cannot accept it because you dislike it or disapprove of it. 忍受



4 Intel’s move also marks the start of a new era of public funding for chipmaking in America that could dangerously distort the market. The industry is lobbying for $50bn of federal support over the next decade, which it says is necessary to spur construction of 19 new fabs, requiring $280bn of private investment. Mr Gelsinger’s bet puts Intel **in the vanguard of** America’s mission to strengthen its position as a semiconductor superpower. But if it does not play its cards carefully, it could be the first Silicon Valley firm to suffer the curse of being a national champion. 

> N-SING单数型名词If someone is **in the vanguard of** something such as a revolution or an area of research, they are involved in the most advanced part of it. You can also refer to the people themselves as **the vanguard**. 先锋

 

5 It is already one of the first in line for public **largesse**. American politicians loudly **grumble** about how dependent the country has become on two firms in China’s backyard, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (tsmc), and Samsung, a South Korean conglomerate. Although American firms lead the world in developing and designing chips, they manufacture just 12% of them at home, down from 37% in 1990. They blame the Asian countries’ subsidies, which help defray the huge cost of fabs, which these days can exceed $10bn apiece. That may be so, but tsmc and Samsung have also outdone Intel in recent years in their ability to produce state-of-the-art chips. When he was president, Donald Trump pressed the two Asian companies to expand production on American soil. Both say they will. Intel, though, is a more obvious recruit for the home team.

> **Largesse** is a generous gift of money or a generous act of kindness. 慷慨捐助; 善举

> If someone **grumbles**, they complain about something in a bad-tempered way. 抱怨

> If you **defray** someone's costs or expenses, you give them money which represents the amount that they have spent, for example, while they have been doing something for you or acting on your behalf. 支付



6 **Heeding the call,** Mr Gelsinger has vowed to get the firm back into the game, displaying a **chutzpah** not seen since his mentor, Andy Grove, stepped down as chief executive in 1998. The government is **squarely** behind him. Intel is likely to be an early recipient of part of the $37bn Mr Trump’s successor, Joe Biden, has **earmarked** to support America’s chipmakers. It also plans to expand in Europe, where countries hope to lure as much as €50bn ($59bn) in semiconductor investments, partly with state support.

> If you say that someone has **chutzpah**, you mean that you admire the fact that they are not afraid or embarrassed to do or say things that shock, surprise, or annoy other people. 胆识

> If something such as blame or responsibility lies **squarely** with someone, they are definitely the person responsible. 明确地

> If resources such as money **are earmarked** **for** a particular purpose, they are reserved for that purpose. 留出

 

7 In economic terms all this is a mixed blessing. Free money is always nice. If America’s government insists that American companies buy more American-made chips, Intel stands to benefit. But government backing can encourage over-expansion; building factories takes years, while demand for chips changes quickly, fuelling regular **boom-and-bust** cycles. Support can also unexpectedly be **snatched** away. Investors, already nervous about the sliding profitability of Intel’s core business, may **fret** about the impact of over-investment on margins. And there is no guarantee customers will flock to the company as a contract manufacturer. It has **dabbled** in this business before with little success, chiefly because it had put its own chipmaking interests over its customers’. Mr Gelsinger now talks of “co-opetition” rather than competition, and promises to keep contract manufacturing at arm’s length from Intel’s own chipmaking. Clients may still prefer tsmc, unburdened by any such conflict.

> **boom-and-bust :** 繁荣与萧条

> If something **is snatched** from you, it is stolen, usually using force. If a person **is snatched**, they are taken away by force. 强抢

> If you **fret** about something, you worry about it. 担心

> If you **dabble** **in** something, you take part in it but not very seriously. 涉猎、涉足

 

**8 The silicon curtain** (芯片之争 Iron Curtain)

The trickiest task for Intel will be to balance a state-backed expansion in America and Europe with **cordial** relations with China, its biggest market, accounting for 26% of last year’s sales. For now China probably needs Intel as much as Intel needs China. But if Mr Biden pursues his predecessor’s policy of restricting chip exports to Chinese firms, the risk is not just lower sales, but retaliation. As geopolitical tensions mount, so does the pressure to renationalise supply chains, or turn them into competing webs of Chinese and American allies. Intel should discourage this at all costs. It would be disastrous for one of the world’s most globally integrated industries. It would be **no picnic** for Intel, either. 

> **Cordial** means friendly. 友善的

> **no picnic:** 不容易





