---
description: Food is an old theme of art. Now the reverse is true too
---

# D435  Food is an old theme of art. Now the reverse is true too

## Museums are using dishes and tipples to attract new audiences



1 “Tra arte e cucina”—“Between art and **cuisine**”—is how the Uffizi Galleries describe their recently launched cooking show, “Uffizi da mangiare” (“Uffizi on a plate”).In the videos, Italian chefs share recipes based on pieces in the collection in Florence, discussing both the artworks and the dishes. Dario Cecchini created *costata alla fiorentina* from a game-filled **pantry** depicted by Jacopo Chimenti; Marco Stabile turned Giorgio de Chirico’s “Still Life with Peppers and Grapes” into a **risotto** that aims to capture the painting’s ingredients and sensations on a plate.

> The **cuisine** of a country or district is the style of cooking that is characteristic of that place. 烹调风格

> A **pantry** is a small room in a house, usually near the kitchen, where food is kept. 食品储藏室

> **Risotto** is an Italian dish consisting of rice cooked with ingredients such as tomatoes, meat, or fish. (用西红柿、肉、鱼等烹制的)意大利调味饭



2 Food has always been a subject of art. But increasingly the roles are being reversed, as paintings are interpreted in edible ways and shared online in new, bite-size formats. As part of their bid to attract digital audiences to replace **in-person** ones, enterprising museums are melding the worlds of art and cuisine.

>  **in-person :** 亲自



3 Last year the Los Angeles County Museum of Art began a quarterly series, “Cooking with lacma”, which features chefs, culinary historians and recipes based on works in the museum. In the first video Maite Gomez-Rejón of ArtBites, which aims to combine **culinary** and art history, made a mezcal margarita that was inspired by the output of Rufino Tamayo, a Mexican artist. An **instalment** this month will involve a Japanese dish drawn from the work of Nara Yoshitomo, a painter. Vivian Lin of lacma hopes viewers will be moved to “share recipes and new insights about art with one another”.

> **Culinary** means concerned with cooking. 烹调的

> **mezcal** margarita: 龙舌兰酒(*Mezcal*)  玛格丽特(*MARGARITA*)

> An **instalment** of a story or plan is one of its parts that are published or carried out separately one after the other. (报刊上连载故事的) 一集; 一部分

> 

4 Cocktails have been an especially popular form of crossover during the pandemic, notes Ms Gomez-Rejón, who collaborated with the Huntington, a museum in California, on a video series reimagining works in its collections as **tipples** and other offerings. For its part, the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston translated a moody yellow self-portrait by Frantisek Kupka, a Czech artist, into a tropical drink. In the Frick Collection’s weekly “Cocktails with a Curator” films, experts at the museum in New York match a liquid **concoction** to the theme or region of an artwork under discussion.

> A person's **tipple** is the alcoholic drink that they usually drink. 常喝的酒

> A **concoction** is something that has been made out of several things mixed together. 调制品



5 The art world’s food **fad** began before covid-19. Released last year, for instance, the documentary “Ottolenghi and the Cakes of Versailles” focused on a reinterpretation of 18th-century French **cuisine** at a pricey banquet at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. But recent online programming makes the art-food **mash-up** digestible for broader audiences. And the trend is set to outlast the lockdown. At a time when broadening access is an **imperative**, food can help museums **entice** first-time visitors and co-operate with new partners.It “can be a really nice entry point for people who are less comfortable with art”, says Elee Wood of the Huntington.

> You use **fad** to refer to an activity or topic of interest that is very popular for a short time, but which people become bored with very quickly. 一时的狂热

> The **cuisine** of a country or district is the style of cooking that is characteristic of that place. 烹调风格

> A **banquet** is a grand formal dinner. 正式宴会

> **Mash-up:** a piece of recorded or live music in which a producer or DJ blends together two or more tracks, often of contrasting genres 混搭音乐

> If it is **imperative** that something be done, that thing is extremely important and must be done. 至关重要的

> To **entice** someone to go somewhere or to do something means to try to persuade them to go to that place or to do that thing. 怂恿



6 Most important, as Ms Gomez-Rejón says, “Cooking itself is an art.” Like the visual kind, it illuminates the culture that produced it—an understanding enriched by **juxtaposing** the two forms of creativity. At their best, both food and painting are transporting experiences, introducing new worlds and possibilities, whether on a wall, a plate or in the imagination.

> If you **juxtapose** two contrasting objects, images, or ideas, you place them together or describe them together, so that the differences between them are emphasized. 把…并列



7 Take the use of **blancmange** by Debora Massari, a pastry chef, in the Uffizi’s series (pictured). Through a dish that has roots in Arab cuisine, which appeared on the tables of the Medicis, she pays **homage** to Raphael’s marriage portraits of Agnolo and Maddalena Doni. A ring of pastry and blancmange covered in dark chocolate (representing Agnolo) is entwined with a ring of white chocolate and lemon (Maddalena). The recipe **draws on** art and history to make something deliciously new. 

> **Blancmange** is a cold custard that is made from milk, sugar, cornstarch, and flavouring. 牛奶冻

> **Homage** is respect shown toward someone or something you admire, or to a person in authority. 崇敬

> **draws on**: 利用





