---
description: DGovernments should set targets to reduce methane emissions
---

# D409 Governments should set targets to reduce methane emissions

## It would rapidly make a difference to climate change

 

1 The oracle of Delphi’s **trance**-like state is thought to have been induced by gases seeping into her chamber through a crack in the ground. Some say methane was part of the cocktail. If true, the gas has shaped the course of civilisations at least three times: in ancient Greece when wars were waged and kingdoms fell on the strength of the Oracle’s prophecies, in the 20th century when methane-fuelled machines helped power industrialisation, and today, when the gas is a central but under-appreciated part of the fight against climate change.

> A **trance** is a state of mind in which someone seems to be asleep and to have no conscious control over their thoughts or actions, but in which they can see and hear things and respond to commands given by other people. 催眠状态

> If something such as liquid or gas **seeps** somewhere, it flows slowly and in small amounts into a place where it should not go. 渗透 

> The **Pythia** ([/ˈpɪθiə/](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:IPA/English);[[1\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pythia#cite_note-1) [Ancient Greek](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ancient_Greek_language): Πυθία [[pyːˈtʰi.aː\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:IPA/Greek)) was the name of the [high priestess](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High_priest) of the [Temple of Apollo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Temple_of_Apollo_(Delphi)) at [Delphi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delphi) who also served as its [oracle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oracle), also known as the **Oracle of Delphi**.
>
> The scholar [Martin Litchfield West](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Martin_Litchfield_West) writes that the Pythia shows many traits of [shamanistic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shamanism) practices, likely inherited or influenced from [Central Asian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Central_Asia) practices, although there is no evidence of any such association at this time. He cites the Pythia sitting in a cauldron on a tripod, while making her prophecies in an ecstatic trance state, like [shamans](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shamanism), and her utterings unintelligible.[[26\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pythia#cite_note-26)

 

2 Human activity emits far less methane than carbon dioxide, but methane packs a heavier punch. Over the **course** of 20 years, a tonne of the gas will warm the atmosphere about 86 times more than a tonne of CO2. As a result methane, sometimes called carbon dioxide **on steroids**, is responsible for 23% of the rise in temperatures since pre-industrial times. Carbon dioxide gets most of the attention, but unless methane emissions are limited there is little hope of stabilising the climate.

> If something happens **in the course of** a particular period of time, it happens during that period of time. 在…期间

>  **on steroids:** 加强版、打兴奋剂版

 

3 Unfortunately methane emissions have been anything but stable. After briefly stalling in the early 2000s, atmospheric concentrations of the gas started rising again in 2007. A global inventory, concluded last year, found that humans were largely to blame. Chief among the reasons for the rise are the gassy output of livestock farming (cows belch it), rice cultivation (**soggy** environments harbour micro-organisms that make it) and the fossil-fuel industry (pipelines and **rigs** leak it). Agriculture and energy each account for roughly one-third of annual methane emissions. China, America, Russia and other big energy producers and consumers are heavy polluters. Countries with lots of livestock produce a disproportionate share of farming-related emissions, too.

> Something that is **soggy** is unpleasantly wet. 湿乎乎的

> A **rig** is a large structure that is used for looking for oil or gas and for taking it out of the ground or the sea bed. 钻塔

 

4 By how much do methane emissions need to fall? Carbon dioxide lingers in the atmosphere for centuries, making it hard to reduce its atmospheric concentrations. By contrast, methane has a half-life of roughly ten years, which means that it degrades quickly. If new emissions can be cut to below the rate at which old emissions **deplete**, the concentration of methane lingering in the atmosphere will soon fall, slowing global warming. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change estimates that, to keep temperatures between 1.5°C and 2°C above pre-industrial levels, human methane emissions must drop to 35% below where they stood in 2010 by mid-century.

> To **deplete** a stock or amount of something means to reduce it. 消耗

 

5 That is entirely plausible. A big step would be to stop millions of tonnes of methane from leaking out of fossil-fuel infrastructure each year, through pipes with holes, leaky valves and carelessness. Natural-gas operators will be able to sell more gas in exchange for a moderate investment in monitoring and repairing leaks. The International Energy Agency, a global forecaster, estimates that 40% of methane emissions from fossil fuels, equivalent to 9% of all human methane emissions, can be eliminated at no net cost for firms. The harder task is to reduce emissions from agriculture, but even here farmers can draw on new ideas, including [developing new forms of feed](https://www.economist.com/node/21800019) for livestock, and altering how rice is irrigated.

> 与水稻相比，旱稻土壤中甲烷的排放减少40%，对应前面的soggy environments

 

**6 Natural gaps**

Politicians and the public tend to worry about carbon-dioxide emissions and neglect the effects of cutting methane. But dealing with the gas would have a large effect rapidly and at relatively low cost. Governments are busy firming up their commitments to cut emissions under the Paris agreement, as they prepare for the cop26 climate summit in November. On April 22nd President Joe Biden will **convene** his own summit. America is expected to make its targets public around that time, which will almost certainly include a pledge to reduce emissions to net zero by the mid-2000s. It should go further and include a specific target for methane. Then other nations should follow its lead. 

> If someone **convenes** a meeting or conference, they arrange for it to take place. You can also say that people **convene** or that a meeting **convenes**. 召集 (会议); 召开 

> COP26： 第26届联合国气候变化大会将于2021年11月1日至11月12日在苏格兰格拉斯哥举行，由英国西敏政府与意大利政府合作举办。是次会议共合并三个国际公约缔约国会议，包括：《联合国气候变化框架公约》 第26次缔约国会议、《京都议定书》第16次缔约国会议以及《巴黎协定》第三次缔约国会议。





