---
description: The misguided quest  to interpret canine “language”
---

# D431 The misguided quest  to interpret canine “language”

## Dogs are brilliant communicators—in their own way



1 The brows seem to **furrow**. The face turns to the ground. Nearby, your shoes lie in tatters. You know—simply know—that your dog is ashamed of having destroyed your only decent pair, and is **meekly** trying to tell you so.

> A **furrow** is a deep fold or line in the skin of someone's face. 皱纹

> Clothes that are **in** **tatters** are badly torn in several places, so that pieces can easily come off. (衣服) 破烂不堪

> If you describe a person as **meek**, you think that they are gentle and quiet, and likely to do what other people say. 温顺的

 

2 Dogs’ faces seem to beg to be interpreted. And lots of humans cannot resist interpreting them in the terms delimited by human languages. A puppy licking your cheek enthusiastically is bestowing a “kiss”. A dog using its body with no apparent practical goal is “playing”. If they could speak like their owners, many humans want to know, what would their dogs have to say?

> To **bestow** something **on** someone means to give or present it to them. 授予



3 Into the market for answers step Christina Hunger, author of the forthcoming book “How Stella Learned to Talk”, and Alexis Devine, the owner of Bunny, a **canine** TikTok star with over 6.3m followers and 130m “likes”. After careful training, both Stella and Bunny can paw a series of buttons that make a recorded voice speak one of several dozen programmed words. Both Ms Devine and Ms Hunger claim that their dogs string meaningful sequences together: that they are using language.

**Canine** means relating to dogs. 犬的



4 Human linguists tend to be sceptical of “talking” animals. To understand why, consider Noam Chomsky’s devastating review in 1959 of “Verbal Behaviour” by B.F. Skinner, a pioneer in behavioural psychology—a **pivotal** exchange at the birth of modern linguistics. Skinner described human language acquisition as he did other **learned behaviours**: the strengthening of a response after conditioning with a stimulus. If saying “food” gets you food, you’re more likely to say it.

> A **pivotal** role, point, or figure in something is one that is very important and affects the success of that thing. 关键的

> **learned behaviours:** a learned behavior is one that an organism develops as a result of experience 习得行为

> 斯金纳箱（Skinner box）内装有一个操纵杆，下面有一个是食物盘，操纵杆与提供食丸的装置相连。只要箱内的动物按压操纵杆，就会有一粒食丸滚到食物盘内。斯金纳将饥饿的白鼠放于箱内，白鼠在箱内乱跑，活动中偶尔踏上操作杆，就有一粒食丸掉落在食物盘内，白鼠便吃到了食丸。白鼠经过几次尝试，会不断按压杠杆，直到吃饱为止。于是斯金纳认为，有机体做出的反应与其随后出现的刺激条件之间的关系对行为起着控制作用，它能影响以后反应发生的概率。



5 Mr Chomsky took Skinner’s conditioning mechanisms to their absurd conclusions. Skinner wrote that “if we are shown a prized work of art and exclaim *Beautiful!*, the speed and energy of the response will not **be lost on** the owner.” Mr Chomsky noted that this reasoning might lead people “to **shriek** *Beautiful* in a loud, high-pitched voice, repeatedly, and with no delay”. Real humans, by contrast, might in fact show appreciation through a long moment of silence, and then a barely murmured compliment.

> **be lost on** (someone): To have little or no impact or effect on someone; to not be valued, appreciated, or understood by someone.

> When someone **shrieks**, they make a short, very loud cry, for example, because they are suddenly surprised, are in pain, or are laughing. 尖叫



6 People use words in many odd ways. They talk about things that are not the case and hypothesise about things that might be. They make jokes. Dogs like Stella, by contrast, do indeed act a lot like Skinner’s **conditioned** beings. They press a button that says “outside” when they want to go outside; unsurprisingly, rewards strengthen the drive to comply.

> **conditioned:**of or denoting a response that has been learned 条件反应的



7 Ms Hunger came up with her button system after working with children who were not developing language normally. The field of “Alternative and Augmentative Communication” has helped many youngsters express themselves better (often with tablet computers), to their relief and their families’. But some dog experts dislike the practice of **foisting** word-based communication onto **pooches**. By focusing on a basic kind of language that seems human—at least in Skinner’s view—it neglects dogs’ abilities to express themselves in their own ways.

> **foist**:偷偷插入；混入；蒙骗；硬卖给；采用欺骗手段出售；把…强加于

> A **pooch** is a dog. 狗



8 Though **novice** dog-owners are sometimes embarrassed by the habit, they quickly become used to their new companions’ fondness for sniffing the behinds of other dogs, who **reciprocate**. The animals are using exquisitely sensitive noses and anal **glands** to exchange information, about age, health and sexual readiness, among other things. Dogs urinate frequently not, as once assumed, primarily to claim territory, but to leave similar bulletins for others.

> A **novice** is someone who has been doing a job or other activity for only a short time and so is not experienced at it. 新手

> If your feelings or actions toward someone **are reciprocated**, the other person feels or behaves in the same way toward you as you have felt or behaved toward them. 同等回应; 回报

> A **gland** is an organ in the body which produces chemical substances for the body to use or get rid of. 腺



9 Posture, too, conveys masses of information between dogs: **stance**, **hackles**, eyes, ears and teeth contribute to a range of messages transmitted between them. Finally, their own vocalisations, though hardly of the words-and-syntax type that make up human **utterances**, are more sophisticated than the “Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey!” many humans hear. Barks, **growls**, murmurs and **whines** vary widely.

> Your **stance** is the way that you are standing. 站姿

> If something **raises** your **hackles** or makes your **hackles rise**, it makes you feel angry and hostile. 使发怒

> Someone's **utterances** are the things that they say. 言辞; 话语

> When a dog or other animal **growls**, it makes a low noise in its throat, usually because it is angry. (狗或其它动物因愤怒而) 低沉地吼叫

> If something or someone **whines**, they make a long, high-pitched noise, especially one that sounds sad or unpleasant. 哀鸣



10 Impartial scientists have yet to report on the “talking” abilities of dogs like Stella and Bunny (though Bunny is being studied at the Comparative Cognition Lab at the University of California, San Diego). In the meantime, ordinary owners can have a go at training their dogs with the advice Ms Hunger offers. Or they can try another approach: buy one of the many good books on understanding how dogs naturally communicate, and spend the time they might invest in programming buttons on getting to know their pets instead. Having another species in the house is fascinating as well as fun. Even the best-trained dog is a poor conversationalist in human terms—but a brilliant one on their own.



