---
description: Turkey and Armenia show no signs of reconciling
---

# D433 Turkey and Armenia show no signs of reconciling

## The genocide a century ago is just one source of contention



1 BOTH PAST and present haunt relations between Turkey and Armenia. A century ago, Ottoman troops carried out a genocide of Armenians. A few months ago, Turkey helped Azerbaijan defeat Armenia in a war. For decades, the border between Turkey and Armenia has been closed.



2 Yet in December Turkey’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, held out hope of “a new era” in Turkish-Armenian relations. The unlikely setting was a military parade in Azerbaijan celebrating victory over Armenia. Using Turkish arms, Azeri forces had just recaptured parts of Nagorno-Karabakh, an enclave populated and controlled by ethnic Armenians, and the adjacent districts that had been occupied by Armenia for three decades. Army **convoys** rolled past Mr Erdogan and the Azeri president, Ilham Aliyev, displaying the **wreckage** of Armenian tanks, as well as the Turkish drones that had **pounded** them into the ground. Mr Erdogan hinted that Armenia might have learned a lesson from its defeat, and later suggested that Turkey could open its border with Armenia.

> A **convoy** is a group of vehicles or ships travelling together. 同行的船队; 同行的车队

> If you **pound** something or **pound on** it, you hit it with great force, usually loudly and repeatedly. 连续重击

> When something such as a plane, car, or building has been destroyed, you can refer to what remains as **wreckage** or **the wreckage**. (飞机、汽车失事或房屋遭损毁后的) 残骸



3 Nothing of the sort has happened. On the contrary, tempers flared again on April 24th, when President Joe Biden formally declared the killings and deportations of over a million Armenians by Ottoman forces in 1915-17 to have been a genocide. Most historians agree with Mr Biden, but previous American presidents have [usually avoided saying so](https://www.economist.com/the-economist-explains/2021/04/23/what-is-controversial-about-joe-biden-saying-armenian-genocide) to avoid upsetting Turkey, which furiously denies that the killings were as widespread or systematic as the evidence suggests they were. Turkey’s foreign ministry called Mr Biden’s statement “a vulgar distortion of history”.



4 Turkey’s ties with America may not suffer much. With its currency **on the ropes**, Turkey cannot afford another crisis with its NATO ally. But Turkish officials suggest their country’s offer of **detente** with Armenia might be a casualty. Ilnur Cevik, an adviser to Mr Erdogan, says that the end of the Nagorno-Karabakh war removed obstacles to reconciliation. (Turkey supported Azerbaijan’s territorial claims, and now deems them more or less settled.) However, he says, “if Armenians continue to **antagonise** Turkey, forcing the Americans to recognise genocide, then this is not going to go anywhere.”

> **on the ropes:**濒于失败；完全无力回击；处于困境

> **Detente** is a state of friendly relations between two countries when previously there had been problems between them. (两国紧张关系的)缓和

> If you **antagonize** someone, you make them feel angry or hostile toward you. 使 (某人) 对自己产生敌意



5 Turkey closed its border with Armenia in 1993, out of solidarity with Azerbaijan. Reopening it would relieve tensions with Armenia “in a dramatic way”, Nikol Pashinyan, the Armenian prime minister, told *The Economist* in March. Armenia, he also said, would be ready to establish relations with Turkey “without preconditions”. Mr Pashinyan, who was **pilloried** for losing the war, resigned on April 25th to trigger early elections.

> If someone **is pilloried**, a lot of people, especially journalists, criticize them and make them look stupid. 嘲弄; 指受到很多人、尤指受到记者的嘲弄



6 If there was a broad regional settlement, “everybody would win,” says Ahmet Davutoglu, a former Turkish prime minister. The opening of borders would help stabilise the entire Caucasus, offer Armenia, the region’s poorest country, access to markets in Turkey and beyond, and connect Turkey to the energy-rich **Caspian Sea** and Central Asia. Mr Davutoglu, who now heads a small opposition party, was foreign minister when Turkey and Armenia came close to normalising diplomatic ties in 2009. The process **foundered** after a **backlash** from nationalists in both countries. Those in Turkey refused to accept any deal unless Armenia withdrew from Nagorno-Karabakh. Those in Armenia demanded that Turkey recognise 1915 as genocide.

> **Caspian Sea:**里海

> If something such as a plan or project **founders**, it fails because of a particular point, difficulty, or problem. 失败

> **Backlash:** a strong and adverse reaction by a large number of people, especially to a social or political development.



7 Western diplomats have long believed that a settlement between Turkey, a NATO power, and Armenia would diminish Russia’s influence in the Caucasus. Today, the opposite might be true. Instead of pulling Armenia into the West’s orbit, normalisation could draw Turkey deeper into Russia’s. “Russia’s plan is to have an open border between the Eurasian Economic Union and Turkey,” says an Armenian ruling-party mp, referring to a Russian-led trade bloc Armenia joined a few years ago. Turkey itself, having [learned to](https://www.economist.com/europe/2021/02/23/putin-and-erdogan-have-formed-a-brotherhood-of-hard-power)**[ cut deals](https://www.economist.com/europe/2021/02/23/putin-and-erdogan-have-formed-a-brotherhood-of-hard-power)**[ with the Kremlin](https://www.economist.com/europe/2021/02/23/putin-and-erdogan-have-formed-a-brotherhood-of-hard-power), does not seem eager these days to advance Western interests in the Caucasus. Russia might have as big a say in the reconciliation process as Turkey and Armenia themselves. Russian troops have patrolled the Armenian side of the border with Turkey ever since the fall of the Soviet Union; Armenia would doubtless insist that they continue to do so. “Armenia is more locked in Russia’s orbit than ever before,” says Richard Giragosian, a political analyst. “And normalisation with Turkey will only deepen this.”

> **Cut deals:** 达成协议



8 As good as it might look on paper, a regional settlement seems as elusive as ever. Some Armenian officials cautiously welcome the prospect of direct trade with Turkey. But much of the political class, and society at large, seem unready for any kind of engagement. Some also fear that détente with its powerful neighbour would force Armenia to **relinquish** its claims to Nagorno-Karabakh. In a country of barely 3m people, which remains shaken by the war, the fear of Turkey is greater than in recent memory. “This was a war that was triggered by Turkey, **instigated** by Turkey, and managed by Turkey,” says an Armenian official. “There is no confidence.”

> **relinquish**：voluntarily cease to keep or claim; give up.

> Someone who **instigates** an event causes it to happen. 发起



9 Turkey and Azerbaijan have not exactly been reassuring. During that victory parade in Azerbaijan, Mr Erdogan praised Enver Pasha, one of the architects of the genocide. Mr Aliyev recently **presided** over the opening of a **ghoulish** “**Spoils** of War” theme park, featuring **mannequins** of wounded Armenian soldiers with hooked noses and grotesque faces, and neatly arranged helmets of Armenians killed in the war. How to square such displays with Azerbaijan’s offers of peace is anyone’s guess. What Mr Erdogan and Mr Aliyev are offering Armenia looks less like an olive branch than the **short end of the stick.**

> If you **preside over** a meeting or an event, you are in charge. 做主持

> **Ghoulish** people and things show an unnatural interest in things such as human suffering, death, or dead bodies. 对他人痛苦、死亡有变态兴趣的

> **Spoil**：valuables seized by violence, esp in war 战利品

> A **mannequin** is a life-sized model of a person which is used to display clothes, especially in shop windows. 时装模特

> **short end of the stick:**处于劣势（吃亏，在拔河时绳子短的一方）





