---
description: A change in how people consume contemporary art is under way
---

# D422 A change in how people consume contemporary art is under way

## The **vogue** for immersive exhibitions has implications for the market, too

> If there is a **vogue** **for** something, it is very popular and fashionable. 时尚

 

1 Across all four walls of a vast hall, Vincent van Gogh’s blue irises begin to sway. They bloom gently at first, then more violently, as the music builds to a crashing **crescendo**. Visitors to “Immersive Van Gogh” (pictured), now showing at a former music venue in San Francisco, sit or stand in socially distant circles on the floor, their bodies bathed in the glow of these animated laser projections.

> A **crescendo** is a noise that gets louder and louder. Some people also use **crescendo** to refer to the point when a noise is at its loudest. 逐渐增强的响声; 声音最响的一点

 

2 On America’s other coast, visitors will do more than marvel when a new exhibition space covering 50,000 square feet (4,645 square metres) opens on April 22nd. At Superblue Miami they will be able to touch the blossoms **snaking** across a huge wall, and in doing so make the artwork move and change. “Proliferating Immense Life—A Whole Year per Year”, a digitally projected installation by teamLab, a Japanese art collective, is a shimmering cycle of the seasons in which visitors’ hands cause plants to bloom and decay, **petals** scattering in a balletic display. No two visits are ever the same.

> V-I[文学性]不及物动词Something that **snakes** in a particular direction goes in that direction in a line with a lot of bends. 蜿蜒行进
>
> The **petals** of a flower are the thin coloured or white parts that together form the flower. 花瓣

 

3 “Immersive art” experiences are on the rise, not just in America but across the world. Tens of thousands of people have walked completely dry through a “Rain Room” of streaming water in Shanghai, Melbourne and Sharjah. Others have entered a gallery filled with disorientating yellow fog in Berlin, slid down a giant slide in London or visited a mirrored “infinity room” in New York. More and more, the experience of contemporary art is just that: an experience.

 

4 These installations share a common trait: an urge by artists to create—and audiences to enjoy—a space in which visitors participate and play. “It’s a bit like going into the museum and being **in** the picture,” says Florian Ortkrass, co-founder of Random International, an art collective which has followed its blockbuster “Rain Room” with other hands-on exhibits that probe the tension between human bodies and technology. “If this kind of work is done well, it engages people emotionally, it lifts them out of their everyday **rut**,” adds Hannes Koch, Random International’s other co-founder. “It heightens your awareness and perception of people and the space around you—and people like that.”

> f you say that someone is **in a** **rut**, you disapprove of the fact that they have become fixed in their way of thinking and doing things, and find it difficult to change. You can also say that someone's life or career is **in a** **rut**. (思维、做事方式的) 刻板状态; (生活、事业) 一成不变状态

 

5 Immersion in a sensory experience—a **Gesamtkunstwerk** or total work of art—has a long **pedigree** in human history, with the cave paintings at Lascaux and the overwhelming aesthetic experience of the Gothic cathedral. Yet through the 19th and 20th centuries artmaking became more individual and focused on the autonomous painted or sculpted object. Only in the 1960s did artists return to “reinventing art as the environment”, in the words of Marc Glimcher, head of Pace Gallery and co-founder of Superblue, a new **offshoot** dedicated to interactive art.

> Someone's **pedigree** is their background or their ancestors. (人的) 背景; 出身
>
> If one thing is an **offshoot** of another, it has developed from that other thing. 衍生物; 分支

 

6 This “experiential turn” grew out of artworks based on light and space by such practitioners as James Turrell and Robert Irwin in California. In New York another strand included more performance-based, multimedia explorations by Robert Rauschenberg and Yayoi Kusama. The big immersive bang came in 2003, when Olafur Eliasson, a Danish-Icelandic artist, hung a giant “sun” in the Turbine Hall of Tate Modern, under which hordes of visitors happily **basked**. Artists have been experimenting with ambitious installations ever since, enabled by ever more sophisticated technological tools.

> If you **bask** **in** the sunshine, you lie somewhere sunny and enjoy the heat. 晒太阳

 

7 These shows are proving hugely popular. Visitors wait hours for a 60-second slot at the various versions of Ms Kusama’s “Infinity Mirror Room” around the world. There are now around half a dozen competing Van Gogh shows circulating in America, most of them sold out. L’Atelier des Lumières in Paris from Culturespaces, which popularised laser projections of dead masters, attracted 1.4m visitors in 2018. “The House of Eternal Return”, a psychedelic building with **tactile** rooms in Santa Fe, New Mexico, by an outfit called Meow Wolf, has wowed more than 2m people since it opened in March 2016.

> **Tactile** experiences or sensations are received or felt by touch. (经验或感觉)触觉的

 

8 **Whizzy** new technology is part of the reason for immersive art’s appeal. In a screen-saturated world, there is also an undeniable “relief that comes with being in a physical environment that sparks the imagination,” says Ali Rubinstein, co-chief executive of Meow Wolf. “People want to connect to artmaking,” agrees Mr Glimcher of Superblue. More profoundly, as humans become more urban and isolated, “we need our artists to help us connect to a sense of awe—to the **transcendent** and to each other,” he adds.

> **Whizzy**: using sophisticated technology to produce vivid effects 用精密技术创造生动效果的
>
> Something that is **transcendent** goes beyond normal limits or boundaries, because it is more significant than them. 超然的

 

9 Art is always a reflection of the spirit of its time, notes Dorothea von Hantelmann, professor of art and society at Bard College Berlin. What she calls “the shift from object to experience” is a phenomenon of the rich world that reflects many things: a **surfeit** of stuff, a young, more interactive generation with a sophisticated aesthetic, and, perhaps, “a new kind of thinking which one might call ecological thinking, which is to think in connections, in relations.”

> A **surfeit** **of** something is an amount which is too large. 过量

 

**Working wonders**

10 A transformation in how people consume contemporary art is under way. These huge and costly installations, in turn, put pressure on institutions designed for a different age. In an art market built on tradable objects, how can museums and galleries remain relevant and artists who make ephemeral experiences get paid?

“We’re going back full circle to the Renaissance, where you need patrons” for these kinds of huge projects, says Mr Koch of Random International, whose forthcoming work involves visitors painting with light. Both Meow Wolf and Superblue represent ambitious new business models, based on ticket sales, that are poised to spread across the globe. Meow Wolf is a “social-impact art project” whose primary goal is to value the role of artists by paying them a competitive wage, Ms Rubinstein says. The company weathered the pandemic and has just opened a surreal grocery store called “Omega Mart” in Las Vegas, with another venue opening in Denver this year and plans to expand in Asia.

 

11 Superblue, for its part, aims to create a new market infrastructure for its modern art. The firm, partly funded by Silicon Valley entrepreneurs, finances large-scale works **upfront**, then splits the **proceeds** of ticket sales with the participating artists. It will act as a lender to museums and galleries and broker big public art pieces. Watch for more **mesmeric** movement and light as it rolls out other “experiential art centres” around the world. ■

> **upfront**: (of money) paid out at the beginning of a business arrangement 预付金
>
> **The proceeds** of an event or activity are the money that has been obtained from it. (某事件或活动带来的) 收入
>
> **mesmeric**: holding (someone) as if spellbound 催眠的

 





