---
description: Why it’s so hard to fix maddening spelling systems
---

# D419

### Those who have mastered the old ones hold all the power

 

1“Keeping schools closed has DEVESTATING effects” on children, America’s Republican Party tweeted from its official account, before **hastily** deleting the post amid **mockery**. It’s not just American conservatives who stumble with their spelling even when writing about education. Replying to a parliamentary query, the head of the schools inspectorate in Spain’s Balearic Islands misspelled “recoge” (“to collect”, among other things) as “recoje”.

> **hastily:**匆忙地；急速地；慌忙地
>
>  If someone mocks you, you can refer to their behaviour or attitude as **mockery**. 嘲讽

 

2 Writing systems **flummox** people around the world. These days many in China use the roman alphabet to find and enter the complex Chinese characters on phones and computers, meaning they increasingly cannot write many characters without help. French children fear the dictée, an exercise in which they must write down a passage read aloud by teachers. And many who haven’t mastered the notoriously difficult spelling system of English are publicly humiliated in the ritual of the school **spelling bee**. Rare is the system that seems elegant, accurate and well-suited to its language. (Korean’s Hangul script is one; it is so beloved that an annual Hangul Day commemorates its invention.) Why aren’t illogical writing systems ever reformed?

> If someone **is flummoxed** by something, they are confused by it and do not know what to do or say. 使困惑; 使失措
>
> A **spelling bee** is a competition in which children try to spell words correctly. Anyone who makes a mistake is out and the competition continues until only one person is left. 拼字比赛

 

3 Every language’s sounds can be described with the International Phonetic Alphabet (ipa), a collection of symbols that covers the **phonemes**—basic units of sound—in every known tongue. Any given language uses just a subset of these, usually several dozen or so. Memorise a few **squiggles** and you can write any word you can say, and say any word that you read, accurately.

> A **phoneme** is the smallest unit of significant sound in a language. 音位; 音素
>
> A **squiggle** is a line that bends and curls in an irregular way. 波形曲线; 不规则的曲线（此处指IPA)

 

4 But the IPA is a modern invention; prior writing systems arose in chaotic circumstances. For instance, English’s messy spelling came from a confluence of factors. The Latin alphabet was pressed into service for a Germanic language; then the Normans conquered England and brought French spelling customs. As spelling norms were still settling, the English vowel system underwent a major change called the Great Vowel Shift. Scribal errors muddied things further.

 

5 An update seems sensible. But a counter-argument made by traditionalists is that, by reflecting **etymology**, spelling reveals important information. Early English **scribes** put a “p” into receipt to make clear its connection to Latin’s receptus, even though the letter was silent. That “p” also usefully links the word to receptive and recipient, which “reseet” would not. Interesting as etymology can be, however, it is hardly so crucial as to require painfully counterintuitive spellings unto eternity. Most people do not know that the English words whole and health come from the same Germanic root (roughly meaning “undamaged”) as holy. No one would propose respelling them as “hole” and “holth” to advertise the association.

> **Etymology****/ˌɛtɪˈmɒlədʒɪ/**  is the study of the origins and historical development of words. 词源学
>
> In the days before printing was common, a **scribe** was a person who wrote copies of things such as letters or documents. (印刷术普及前的)抄写员
>
> **receipt****/rɪˈsiːt/ 发音与 'reseet'相同**

 

6 Other arguments for **inertia** are more **compelling**. One is regional variety. English, American, Irish, Scottish and other accents differ widely—no new arrangement could possibly reflect them all. Another is simply that pronunciations are always shifting, albeit gradually. Even a successful reform would only buy time; in two centuries many spellings would look odd again, because their pronunciations will have changed anew.

>  **Inertia** is the tendency of a physical object to remain still or to continue moving, unless a force is applied to it. 惯性
>
> A **compelling** argument or reason is one that convinces you that something is true or that something should be done. 令人信服的

 

7 Modest tweaks might work better than drastic revisions; they need not create a perfect or timeless system, merely one easier than today’s. But even small changes are hard to push through. Some years ago a limited German reform—which included replacing the ß character with “ss” in some contexts—produced a national **uproar** before it finally settled in. The types of sweeping change needed to make English regular might be socially unacceptable. Where **root-and-branch** orthographical reform has been implemented it has usually been in autocracies, like Turkey in the 1920s, when Kemal Ataturk replaced the Arabic script with a revised Latin one—or, indeed, Mao Zedong’s simplification of Chinese characters in the 1950s.

> If there is **uproar**, there is a lot of shouting and noise because people are very angry or upset about something. 骚动
>
> **root-and-branch ：**entirely; completely; utterly 全面地; 彻底地

 

8 A big reason spelling systems never seem to get overhauled in more liberal societies is that those in a position to change the rules have learned the old ones. Put another way, the type of folk who were once good at spelling bees now run the world. Those who would benefit most from reform, meanwhile, hardly have a voice, being either children or illiterate adults whom politicians can safely ignore. For the broad middle who **muddle through**, technology has made it easier to hide what they don’t know. It seems the illogical systems are here to stay. In which case, politicians had better learn to spell-check their tweets.

> If you **muddle through**, you manage to do something even though you do not have the proper equipment or do not really know how to do it. 应付过去

 