# D449 Clare Wenham on why vaccine certificates harm society
> Vaccine certiifcates：接种证
 > 

1 IMAGINE IF GOVERNMENTS reintroduced **leper colonies**, placed people with tuberculosis in “prisons” and forbade those with HIV/AIDS from some public places—all of which has happened (and continues, such as with HIV restrictions for certain visas). We would be **aghast**. Throughout history, excluding people based on their health status has been highly discriminatory.

> **leper colonies**：麻风病患者隔离区
>
> **aghast**：惊骇
>

2 Yet a somewhat similar logic is behind the idea of vaccine passports. Those who **pose a low risk** of transmitting the virus will be allowed to reintegrate into society, and the rest will not. Though in the first examples the people are ill, the wider point in all these cases is that health status becomes the way to determine an individual’s right to participate in social, civic and economic life—and society globally will become two-tiered.

3 The **appeal** of vaccine certificates is understandable. Businesses and governments see them as essential for reopening society and reinvigorating **flailing** economies. Several places have implemented or approved programmes, notably Israel and countries in the European Union. But it is a dangerous policy that could unleash demons that we’ll be living with for years. There are far better ways to manage public health and open the economy that do not divide society.

> **flail**：wave or swing or cause to wave or swing wildly，摇摇欲坠
>
> **Appeal to**：呼吁、吸引、诉求
>

4 Though some critics worry about the consequences of vaccine certificates for personal privacy, the concerns about equity are more far-reaching.

> **far-reaching**：影响深远的
>

5 The past year has revealed the vast inequalities in societies. Black, Latino, Asian and other ethnic groups have been disproportionately harmed, given their exposure to the virus in frontline jobs and denser housing. At the same time, lower socio-economic groups, women and other marginalised communities have faced greater job losses and economic hardship. Vaccine certificates reproduce these inequalities at a time when we should be taking steps to better integrate these people into society..

6 Moreover, vaccine passports discriminate against people who have no control over the ability to get inoculated. Many groups are unable to get a vaccine or might reasonably **demur** because of the risks, such as pregnant women in some places for safety reasons (though the policy is changing), people with some autoimmune conditions (where data on safety are unclear), and those with allergies to vaccine ingredients. Children are also unable to access the vaccine. If they are unable to participate in public activities, it will limit their carers’ interaction in society, especially for women, on whom the majority of the parenting burden falls.

> **inoculate**：接种
>
> **de'mur**：表示异议[正式]
>

7 Then there are those who don’t wish to be vaccinated. Though vaccine passports are meant to encourage jabs—and I eagerly wait to get one myself—individual decision-making must be respected as a central tenet of liberal democracy and on grounds of bodily autonomy.

> **tenet**：(理论、信仰的) 基本原则 [正式]
>

8 Internationally, vaccine certificates discriminate against people from the global south who are unable to get a jab. Countries in central Asia and sub-Saharan Africa are not expected to have full vaccination coverage until at least 2023. Requiring vaccine passports to travel would mean that those people, particularly the ones who are economically active, would be prohibited from it. This would not only affect individuals who would be confined within national borders, in contrast to those in the global north, but their economies would experience less growth and be less competitive. The ramifications for emerging economies would last decades.

> **confine**：将 (自己或自己的活动) 局限于
>
> **ramification**：衍生后果
>

9 Strikingly, not all vaccines are equal in the eyes of policymakers. We could easily slip into a scenario where the specific vaccine manufacturers are listed on certificates, with governments permitting only individuals to cross borders who have received doses approved by their national regulators. We already see seeds of this, with Iceland releasing a list of approved vaccines for which recipients are not required to quarantine following a negative covid-19 test. Such a policy might block those who received Russia’s Sputnik V or China’s Sinovac vaccine, both widely administered in Central and South America and sub-Saharan Africa.

> **Russia’s Sputnik V**：俄罗斯卫星五号疫苗
>
> **China’s Sinovac vaccine**：中国科兴疫苗
>

10 Some critics challenge the equity argument. They note that vaccinations are required by some state school systems for children’s access to education (save for certain exceptions). That’s true, but it is also ethically contested whether the state can mandate people to get vaccinated at all. Others highlight that such policies already exist, with **yellow-fever** certificates for international travel, issued by the World Health Organisation. However the difference is that yellow-fever vaccine supply is not limited by a finite supply of vaccine, and the certificates only enable cross-border travel, not public participation in daily civic life.

> **mandate**：强制执行 [美国英语]
>
> **yellow-fever**：黄热病
>
> **Save for**：除了
>
> **contest**：争议
>

11 Vaccine passports are an affront to rules against discrimination. Most countries have some form of anti-discrimination laws. Globally, under the WHO’s International Health Regulations, countries cannot implement control measures at borders which could be discriminatory, as vaccine passports would be. Although governments regularly flout the WHO rules, we should not further condone that by accepting vaccine passports. It is noteworthy that the WHO’s position is that countries shouldn’t require them, recognising in part the potential for fuelling inequity.

> **affront**：侮辱
>
> **flout**：藐视
>
> **condone**：纵容
>

12 Is there a way to resolve the tension between supporters and opponents of vaccine passports? Yes. The certificates are required only to separate the “vaxxed” from the “vaxxed nots”. A better solution is to reduce the number of non-inoculated people through an immediate expansion of global vaccine production, facilitated by waiving intellectual-property rights and requiring the transfer of technology from drug companies in America and Europe to developing countries. In this way, the world can be vaccinated quickly, avoiding the need for certificate schemes in the first place.

> **waive**：放弃
>
> **expansion**：扩大
>
> **intellectual-property**：知识产权
>
> **non-inoculated**：未接种的
>

13 The issue can be distilled to one that has plagued many dimensions of governments’ response to the pandemic: to what degree should society prioritise economic reopening over the risk of entrenching inequalities? Sadly, governments have answered this by accepting the idea of vaccine certificates and not forbidding companies from imposing vaccination requirements.

> **plague**：困扰
>
> **entrench**：巩固
>
> **dimension**：维、方面
>
> **distill**：归结、提炼
>

14 So begins a new phase in society, where a person’s health status **dictates** what they may do in life. If this invites more discrimination, especially against marginalised people, the responsibility is not just on the governments who enabled it, but on everyone who didn’t speak out against it.

> dictate：控制
>

