# DAY 12 As its covid-19 epidemic slows, China tries to get back to work
1 IF CHINA IS the world’s factory, Yiwu International Trade City is the factory’s showroom. It is the world’s biggest wholesale market, spacious enough to fit 770 football pitches, with stalls selling everything from leather purses to motorcycle mufflers. On February 24th, as is customary for its reopening after the lunar new year, performers held long fabric dragons aloft on poles and danced to the beat of drums, hoping to bring good fortune to the 200,000 merchants and buyers who normally throng the market each day. But these are not normal times. The reopening was delayed by two weeks because of the covid-19 virus, the crowd was sparse and the dragon dancers, like everyone else, donned white face-masks for protection. The ceremony complete, business began. All those entering the market had to pass health checks and were told to be silent during meal breaks, lest they spread germs by talking.

2The muted restart of the Yiwu market resembles that of the broader Chinese economy. The government has decided that the epidemic is under control to the point that much of the country can go back to work. That is far from simple. More than 100m migrant workers, the people who make the economy tick, are still in their hometowns, and officials are trying hard to transport them to the factories and shops that need them. Yiwu has chartered dozens of trains and buses to bring in workers from around the country. It also wants to lure in buyers from around the world: it has offered to cover the full cost of their flights and accommodation if they arrive before February 29th.

3 The market is, little by little, getting busier. But merchants lucky enough to find new customers have an even bigger challenge in fulfilling their orders. Wang Meixiao is a plastic-jewellery wholesaler, the walls of her store **groaning with bead** necklaces of every size and colour. But her company’s factories in Yiwu and in Haikou, 1,750km to the south-west, do not yet have enough workers to operate. Many are reluctant to leave their hometowns, fearful of the virus and unwilling to **trek across** the country only to have to endure 14-day quarantines at their destinations. “I tell my customers they just have to wait another couple of weeks, but that’s a guess. No one knows,” she says.

4 Since the outbreak of the coronavirus, economists and investors have tried to grasp the basics of epidemiology, analysing such matters as the potential **incubation** period of the disease and the dangers of asymptomatic transmission. Recently, they have turned their attention back to more familiar **terrain**, tracking the state of the economy. To **gauge** whether production is resuming, they examine an array of daily figures, including coal consumption, traffic **congestion** and property sales. All have started to rise (see chart). But all remain far below the levels **indicative** of a healthy economy.

5 One **gauge** has been far more upbeat—unrealistically so. China’s stockmarket fell by more than 10% after the coronavirus spread in late January but has since made up all of that ground. It even held on to its gains in recent days when global markets fell sharply because of concerns about the rise in coronavirus infections in Iran, Italy and South Korea. The bullishness in China partly stems from the belief that the government could soon **unleash** a big stimulus to boost growth. So far, however, it has only offered targeted support: state-owned banks are extending loans, the finance ministry is cutting taxes on a temporary basis and landlords, guided by the government, are trimming rents.

6 Yet China has unquestionably shifted its focus, as underlined on February 23rd when President Xi Jinping spoke via teleconference to cadres around the country, as many as 170,000 watching him. In areas where the virus is no longer a big danger, it is time for companies to resume operations, he said, adding that China still wants to meet its economic targets this year. His words, taken literally, suggest that the government wants growth of at least 5.5% in 2020, a rate that would be hard to achieve if large-scale production outages dragged on into March.

