# D360 Donald Trump’s second impeachment ends in a second acquittal
> N-VAR有变体名词**Acquittal** is a formal declaration in a court of law that someone who has been accused of a crime is innocent. 无罪的判决
 > 

1 FEW EXPECTED that Donald Trump’s impeachment for inciting the mob that stormed the Capitol on January 6th would lead to his conviction. That would have needed the unlikely votes of 17 Republican senators. In recent weeks there were no signs that so many were ready to turn on the former president. Now those expectations have been met. On the afternoon of February 13th all 100 senators rose in their chamber—the same one where rioters rifled through desks and posed for selfies the month before—and one by one declared their position on the former president’s guilt. A majority, including all 50 Democrats and seven Republicans, voted to convict him. But by falling short of 67 senators, the two-thirds majority needed, they acquitted Mr Trump for a second time.

2 From Florida the former president immediately issued a statement, praising his hastily gathered legal team and gleefully decrying “yet another phase of the greatest **witch hunt** in the history of our Country”. He also vowed further political activity, saying his movement “has only just begun”. In his telling, the trial amounted to an attempt to “transform justice into a tool of political vengeance”.

> N-UNCOUNT不可数名词**Glee** is a feeling of happiness and excitement, often caused by someone else's misfortune. 高兴 (常指幸灾乐祸)
>
> witch hunt: 猎巫是原指搜捕女巫与巫师或施行巫术的证据将被指控的人带上宗教审判法庭。今日此类事件被视为一种道德恐慌及政治迫害。
>

3 Did the failure to convict Mr Trump mean it was a mistake to try? Hardly. The trial served various ends. It was a first attempt—and other legal efforts will follow, at least for lesser figures, in criminal courts—to assign responsibility for the deadly attack on the US Capitol. The Senate trial drew **avid** public attention. Dramatic fresh footage of the assault by the mob, presented this week by Democratic congressmen serving as the prosecution, was witnessed by millions of Americans following events online and on television. Those videos, often shot by the rioters themselves, were at times **harrowing** and cruel. The presentation was effective, and a reminder that political violence is a real threat in America. Even Mr Trump’s lawyers frankly condemned the assault on the Capitol as “horrific” and said it was conducted by criminals. Whatever the result, the trial may thus have gone some way to helping to draw a line against antidemocratic violence—as low a bar as that might seem.

> You use **avid** to describe someone who is very enthusiastic about something that they do. 热切的
>
> A **harrowing** experience is extremely upsetting or disturbing. 折磨人的
>
> low the bar:To lower the standards of quality that are expected of or required for something.
>

4 Second, the trial produced a political outcome **of note**. It has made explicit that the party remains in the grip of Donald Trump, but that that grip has begun to weaken. That seven senators turned against a still popular former president from their own party is striking. It was a different story last year, when Mr Trump was impeached for abuse of office after he put pressure on Ukraine’s government to investigate his main political opponent, Joe Biden, now president. On that occasion, Mitt Romney was the only Republican senator ready to vote to convict him. (That, in turn, was the first time any senator had voted against a president from his own party in an impeachment trial). This time, Mr Romney was joined by six others who declared Mr Trump’s behaviour **beyond the pale**: Richard Burr (North Carolina), Bill Cassidy (Louisiana), Susan Collins (Maine), Lisa Murkowski (Alaska), Ben Sasse (Nebraska) and Pat Toomey (Pennsylvania). To the number of senior Republicans turning their backs on Mr Trump may be added Nikki Haley, a former ambassador to the United Nations, who in an interview published on February 12th by Politico said she was “disgusted” by his **treatment** of his vice-president, Mike Pence, and that she did not think he was going to be "in the picture".

> of note: PHRASE习语Someone or something that is **of note** is important, worth mentioning, or well-known. 显要的; 有名的
>
> **beyond the pale**: outside the bounds of acceptable behaviour.
>
> N-UNCOUNT不可数名词Your **treatment** of someone is the way you behave toward them or deal with them. 对待; 处理
>

5 A larger share of Senate Republicans (14%) thus voted against the ex-president than did Republicans in the House, where ten of them, out of 211, had backed his impeachment. The tally in the Senate may well have been higher still had Mitch McConnell, the minority leader, not wavered and then told his fellow senators that he would not vote to convict Mr Trump. That was not out of affection. On January 19th a visibly angry Mr McConnell had told the Senate of how “the mob was fed lies” and was “provoked by the president and other powerful people”. On February 13th, following the acquittal, Mr McConnell repeated that “there is no question, none, that President Trump is practically and morally responsible for provoking” the rioters’ attack. Mr McConnell, however, voted “not guilty”, arguing that the Senate lacked jurisdiction to punish Mr Trump once he had left office. He dropped strong hints that others might yet prosecute the ex-president, saying: “We have a criminal-justice system in this country. We have civil **litigation**. And former presidents are not immune from being accountable by either one.”

> N-UNCOUNT不可数名词**Litigation** is the process of fighting or defending a case in a civil court of law. 诉讼
>

6 The prosecution of Mr Trump in the Senate made sense for a third reason. Not trying him for “high crimes and **misdemeanours**”, would have been to overlook **egregious** misbehaviour. As the Democratic House Managers—the prosecutors of the case—spelled out clearly, Mr Trump had spent months even before election day pushing a dangerous lie that the presidential election was rigged. He had welcomed support from conspiracy theorists, including QAnon, and violent far-right groups, such as the Proud Boys and the Oath Keepers, in spreading that lie. He had thus weakened trust in institutions, including the election authorities. He had urged supporters to descend on Washington on January 6th for a “wild” event. And his fiery speeches, including just before the attack on the Capitol, had excited the rioters whose violence resulted in the death of at least five people. If Congress had not impeached him for all that, in an attempt to block him from seeking federal office again, it is hard to imagine what behaviour could ever warrant such prosecution.

> N-COUNT[法律]可数名词In the United States and other countries where the legal system distinguishes between very serious crimes and less serious ones, a **misdemeanour** is a less serious crime. 轻罪
>
> ADJ[正式][usu ADJ n]形容词**Egregious** means very bad and offensive. 极坏的; 极恶劣的
>

7 Despite the acquittal, Mr Trump’s future remains uncertain. In his statement he hinted at lingering political ambitions: “We have so much work ahead of us, and soon we will emerge with a vision for a bright, **radiant**, and limitless American future.” He **feeds off** public attention, the more so now that his eviction from social-media platforms has deprived him of one of his main attention-seeking devices. Yet President Biden and the Democrats want to move their own attention to other things—notably fighting against the coronavirus pandemic. Options remain, such as censuring Mr Trump in the Senate or trying to use the 14th Amendment to the constitution to block him from **running for** office. But any such action, requiring only a simple majority to support it in the Senate, would probably be seen as too narrowly partisan and at risk of setting a dangerous precedent. Instead it would probably be better politics to leave it to the Republicans, and perhaps the courts, to **wrangle** over the fate of the ex-president. That **scrap** could be bitter—and has only just begun.

> run for : 竞选
>
> V-RECIP相互动词If you say that someone **is wrangling** **with** someone **over** a question or issue, you mean that they have been arguing angrily for a long time about it. (长时间的) 争吵
>
> N-UNCOUNT[非正式]不可数名词You can refer to a fight or a quarrel as a **scrap**, especially if it is not very serious. 打架; 斗嘴
>

