---
description: On the supposedly difficult question of ‘criminal intent’, prosecutors should have no trouble convincing a jury. Full speed ahead is the only proper course.
---

# D757 The evidence is clear: it’s time to prosecute Donald Trump
1 On 8 March, a jury took three hours to **render** a guilty **verdict** against Guy Reffitt, a January 6 **insurrectionist**. Donald Trump could not have been pleased. DC is where Trump would be tried for any crimes relating to his admitted campaign to overturn the election.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  **Jurors** there would have no trouble finding that the evidence satisfies all **statutory** elements required to convict Trump, including his criminal intent, the most challenging to prove. That is our focus here.

> **render**：正式宣布，To render a verdict means that a jury agrees upon and returns a written decision into court and hands the decision to the judge sitting at the trial.
>
> **verdict** ：裁决；结论
>
> **insurrectionist**：造反者
>
> **Juror**：陪审团
>
> **statutory**：法定的
>

2 A 3 March New York Times story asserted that “[b]uilding a criminal case against Mr Trump is very difficult for federal prosecutors ... given the high burden of proof ... [and] questions about Mr Trump’s mental state”.
The clea**r implication** is that justice department leaders may simply be following the path of **prudence** in hesitating to **indict**, or even to robustly investigate, Mr Trump. But based on the already public evidence – and there’s undoubtedly lots more that’s not yet public – no **vigilant** prosecutor would be deterred by the difficulty of convincing a jury about Trump’s state of mind. Full speed ahead is now the only proper course.

> **prudence**：谨慎；节俭；精明
>
> **indict**：起诉；控告
>
> **implication**：含意；可能的影响（或作用、结果）
>
> **vigilant** ：警觉的；警惕的
>

3 The former president is vulnerable to charges of **conspiring** to **defraud** the United States, 18 USC §371, and **obstructing** a congressional proceeding, 18 USC §1512(c)(2).
Regarding §371’s intent requirement, the US supreme court has **ruled** that conspiracies to defraud the United States include plots entered “for the purpose of impairing, obstructing or defeating the lawful functions of any department of Government” using “deceit, craft or trickery, or ... means that are dishonest”.

> **USC**: US code: 美国法典
>
> **conspire**：阴谋；合谋
>
> **defraud**：诈骗
>
> **obstruct**：阻碍
>
> **rule**：裁定
>
> **impair**：损害、危害
>
> **deceit**：欺骗
>
> **trickery**：欺骗
>

4 The mental state required for §1512 is a “corrupt” intent to obstruct, influence, or **impede** an official proceeding. In Arthur Andersen v United States, the supreme court said “corrupt” meant “dishonest” or “wrongful, immoral, **depraved**, or evil”.
The mountain of already public evidence would surely lead a DC jury to reject Trump’s defense that that he honestly believed his own “big lie” that widespread ballot fraud had deprived him of victory, and therefore that his intent was innocent.

> **impede** ：阻碍；阻止
>
> **depraved**：道德败坏的；堕落的
>

5 First, Trump knew that the 60-plus court cases seeking to overturn the votes in **contested** states had failed.
Second, as the former Michigan US attorney Barbara McQuade has compellingly shown, five of Trump’s top officials told him **unequivocally** that all the fraud claims were false.
Third, Georgia’s secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger, told Trump the same thing during the **infamous** recorded call in which Trump asked Raffensperger to “find” 11,780 votes, exactly one more than needed to overturn the state’s election.
That call alone screams “corrupt” intent. And the barely veiled way Trump threatened Raffensperger in that call reinforces Trump’s “evil” state of mind.

> **contested** ：有争议的
>
> **unequivocally**：明确地
>
> **infamous**：臭名远扬的；声名狼藉的
>

6 Fourth, Trump’s speech immediately preceding the Capitol attack included a **provable**, telling lie – that he would join the Capitol march with the crowd even though his pre-speech schedule showed no such plan and Trump did nothing of the sort. A properly instructed jury would likely conclude that this lie reflected Trump’s desire to remain far from the violence he had encouraged, giving him both physical safety and **plausible** deniability and further evidencing a “corrupt” state of mind.

> **provable**：可以证明的；能证实的
>
> **plausible** ：有道理的；可信的；巧言令色的
>

7 Fifth, Trump’s failure for three hours to call off the **siege** after it began, **notwithstanding** violent televised images and **entreaties** from his children, advisers and allies – despite his undoubted duty to “take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed” – was manifestly “depraved”.
Sixth, when Trump **belatedly** asked the **insurrectionists** to go home, he called them “patriots” who should “remember this day for ever”. A federal judge wrote in an 18 February opinion that “a reasonable observer could read that tweet as **ratify**ing the violence and other illegal acts that took place that day”.

> **notwithstanding** ：尽管
>
> **televise**：用电视播放
>
> **entreaty**：哀求
>
> **siege**：包围
>
> **belatedly**：延误的；落伍的
>
> **insurrectionists**：造反派；起义者
>
> **opinion**：（法官或法院说明判决理由的）判决意见书
>
> **ratify**：批准（条约或书面协议）
>

8 Seventh, “willful ignorance” of **incriminating** facts is equivalent to knowledge. Drug couriers cannot escape conviction by having chosen not to ask what was inside the heroin-containing package they were **handsomely** paid to import. In Trump’s case, his **purported** belief in election-changing voter fraud was **at the very least** willfully blind to the facts before him.
Finally, another of Trump’s anticipated “innocent intent” defenses – that he was relying on his lawyer John Eastman – would fail. Eastman has stated that it was on his advice that Trump sought to have Pence reject electoral votes for President Biden or to delay the entire vote.

> **incriminate**：显示……有罪
>
> **courier**：信使
>
> **handsomely** ：慷慨地
>
> **purported**:传说的；谣传的；据说
>
> **at the very least**：至少；起码；最低限度
>

9 Even if Trump and Eastman had the requisite attorney-client relationship, which is **dubious** as a matter of fact, the defense has a gaping hole: under the law, Trump’s reliance must have been “reasonable”.
Far from being reasonable, Eastman’s claim that that Pence was “the ultimate **arbiter**” of the electoral count was utter “nonsense”. Trump would be unable to produce any lawyer who supported that constitutionally absurd theory and could withstand even **amateur** cross-examination.

> **dubious**：靠不住的
>
> **arbiter**：仲裁人
>
> **amateur**:业余的
>

10 A concluding point. Some observers have expressed fear that a single Trump-supporting juror could “hang” the jury, suggesting that the US **attorney** general, Merrick Garland, might just deem that risk to be too great to be worth running. But as the BBC’s observer of Guy Reffitt’s trial noted, every juror there saw through the smoke the **defendant** was blowing. Jurors are instructed to use their common sense, and the jury in Reffitt did just that.
A DC jury would do the same in a trial of the conspiracy’s central actor. Once all the evidence is **expeditiously** gathered, with or without the **special counsel** that we recommend, the justice department must indict him.

> **attorney**：律师
>
> **deem**: 认为
>
> **Attorney general**：司法部长、总检察官
>
> **defendant**：被告
>
> **expeditiously**：迅速地
>
> **special counsel** :特别法律顾问
>

