---
description: The internet has made cultural and political commentary easier—and freer
---

# D524 Intellectual magazines are flourishing in Africa
1 Last October young Nigerians took to the streets to protest against police brutality. At first “none of the traditional media companies were covering it,” recalls Wale Lawal. A few years earlier he had started the Republic, a quarterly magazine of ideas and analysis, and now his readers wanted to discuss the movement that was swelling around them. So he and his team in Lagos ran a series of online pieces on the protests, later collected in a special print edition. This kind of in-depth coverage of under-reported stories was “exactly what we were set up to do”.

2 Mr Lawal says he hopes the Republic will one day become “a New York Times for Africa”. But in temperament it is more like the protest movement itself—youthful, **tech-savvy** and decentralised, its freelance writers touching on topics as diverse as modern slavery or the sexism of Fela Kuti, a **revered** musician. The publication is an example of the new intellectual spaces that have opened up in Africa over the past decade, from long-form journalism to literary magazines, in an **efflorescence** of political commentary, criticism and fiction.

> **Tech-savvy**：精通技术的
>
> **revered/rɪˈvɪə/**：受尊敬的
>
> **efflorescence[ˌefləˈresns]**： 绽开; 开花、全盛时期
>

3 African intellectual journals have an **illustrious** history. The independence era of the 1950s and 1960s produced titles such as Présence Africaine and Transition. “A good literary magazine is like a blind man’s stick,” wrote Rajat Neogy, the Ugandan founder of Transition; “it helps you feel the way.” He published work by luminaries including Chinua Achebe, Wole Soyinka, Ngugi wa Thiong’o and James Baldwin. But in 1968 he was arrested for **sedition** after running an article critical of Uganda’s government, **a harbinger of** the authoritarian cloud that would **smother** free expression in many African countries.

> **illustrious**： (人) 著名的、辉煌的
>
> **sedition**： 煽动性言论; 煽动性文章; 煽动性行为
>
> **A harbinger of**：(尤指不祥之事的)先兆 [文学性]
>
> **smother**：使窒息、压抑; 抑制
>

4 By 2000 speech was again becoming freer, and the new century saw the birth of publications such as Chimurenga, a literary magazine that took its name from a Shona word for Zimbabwe’s liberation struggle. But it was on the internet that restraints really fell away. “For many African countries the digital space is the freest,” says John Githongo, a Kenyan anti-corruption campaigner and former writer for The E'conomist. In 2016 he was one of a group of Kenyans who founded the Elephant, an **outspoken** political website that had 3.2m views in 2020. (Online freedom can be fragile: Uganda’s government blocked the site during last year’s election campaign, after it covered **massacre**s by the security forces, among other sensitive subjects.)

> **outspoken**：直言不讳的
>
> **massacre**: 屠杀；残杀；（运动或比赛中的）惨败
>

5 New online **outlets** experiment with podcasts and video and embrace social media. Some of the best-known—such as the analysis site Africa is a Country, or the literary one Brittle Paper—began as personal blogs. They generally reject both the **staid** habits of mainstream African papers and the narrow **preoccupation**s of much Western writing about the continent. Many are more cultural than political, but most lean left. The **outlook** is typically pan-African, finding both solidarity and difference with **activist**s elsewhere. Through a series of essays on “the Black Atlantic”, Mr Lawal hopes to “change the perspective on blackness around the world”. The focus, he thinks, tends to be narrowly American.

> **outlet**： (感情的) 发泄途径; (思想的) 表达途径 an organization that broadcasts or publishes journalism.
>
> **podcast**：博客
>
> **outlook**：观点
>
> **staid**：严肃呆板的; 过时的
>
> **preoccupation**: 偏见；先取; 全神贯注；盘算；思虑；
>
> **activist**: 积极分子；活跃分子
>

6 These outlets also emphasise the universal interests of African writing. Jennifer Malec, editor of the Johannesburg Review of Books, says it aims “to give a voice to African writers to comment on significant literary works from around the world”. Its latest edition discusses both Manyano, a women’s prayer movement in South Africa, and the influence of Charles Dickens. Bakwa, a literary magazine from **Cameroon**, has collaborated with a journal in Mexico and ran a series of essays about travelling as an African, with contributions from across the continent.

> **Cameroon**: 喀麦隆
>

7 “If we didn’t live in the internet era I don’t think we would ever have started Bakwa,” says Dzekashu MacViban, its founder. Although funding is a **perennial** challenge for small magazines, the internet makes it cheaper to reach a scattered readership. Increasingly, says Bwesigye bwa Mwesigire, founder of the Arts Managers and Literary Activists Network in **Kampala**, African intellectuals are building the platforms that make cultural commentary possible. “It’s not just that people are interested in writing, now they are also interested in being the ones publishing.”

> **perennial**: 长久的；持续的；反复出现的
>
> **Kampala**: 坎帕拉;(乌干达首都)
>

8 That spirit is beginning to extend from Africa’s **megaciti**es into quieter places. In 2019 Rémy Ngamije co-founded Doek!, a Namibian literary magazine. Contemporary Namibian writers are, he says, exploring the legacies of colonialism and “the unspoken losses of the liberation struggle” against white-ruled South Africa. “We’re basically doing the grassroots work of starting a literary tradition.” ■

> **Megacity**: 巨型都市
>

