---
description: The war will be as formative for reserve managers as the Asian financial crisis was
---

# D762 Can foreign-currency reserves be sanction-proofed?
> **formative**: （对某事物或性格的发展）有持续重大影响的
 > 

1 Crypto investors sometimes say they have been “rugged” when the developers of a coin vanish, along with the capital that has been allocated to it, pulling the rug out from under them. Foreign-exchange reserve managers might never have expected to recognise the feeling. But almost as soon as Russia invaded Ukraine, American and European authorities froze the assets of the Central Bank of Russia. As others followed, the country’s first line of financial defence was **obliterated**. According to the Russian government, $300bn of its $630bn in reserves are now unusable.

> **rugged**:非常困难的
>
> **vanish**：完全消失
>
> **obliterate**：消灭…的痕迹；使消失；除去
>

2 The managers of the $13.7trn in global foreign-exchange reserves are a conservative breed. They care about liquidity and safety above all else, **largely to** the exclusion of profits. Much of their thinking was shaped by the Asian financial crisis of 1997-98, when currencies collapsed in the face of huge capital outflows. The lesson learned was that reserves needed to be plentiful and liquid.

> **largely to**：很大程度上；主要
>

3 Watching a big chunk of Russia’s reserves being made functionally useless is likely to be just as formative, even for those who face no immediate prospect of a terminal rift with the world’s financial superpowers. That is particularly true for the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (safe), the agency in charge of China’s $3.4trn in reserves. India and Saudi Arabia, with $632bn and $441bn in reserves, respectively, may also be paying close attention.

> **rift**: 分裂; 裂缝; 断裂; 分歧; 严重不和; 裂口
>

4 Barry Eichengreen, an economic historian, has described the choice of the composition of foreign-exchange reserves as being guided by either a “Mercury” or a “Mars” principle. The Mercurial approach bases reserves on commercial links; the currencies being held are largely determined by their usefulness for trade and finance. A Martian strategy bases the composition more on factors like security and geopolitical alliances.

5 Mars seems to be in the ascendant. Central banks are bound to take into account which countries will and will not replicate sanctions against them. In 2020 Guan Tao, a former safe official now at Bank of China International, laid out a range of ways that China could guard against the risk of sanctions. In extremis, he suggested that the dollar could stop being used as the **anchor currency** for foreign-exchange management and be replaced by a basket of currencies.

> **anchor currency** :锚定货币；
>

6 Even that option, which might have sounded extreme a month ago, now falls short of what a Martian central bank would need, given the degree of co-operation with American sanctions. There are few, if any, jurisdictions with large, liquid capital markets denominated in currencies that are useful in an emergency, but which do not pose a risk from a sanctions perspective. Some worried central banks might start increasing their holdings of yuan assets (which currently make up less than 3% of the global total). But that is no solution for China itself.

> **pose a risk** :构成/带来风险；
>
> **Demonimated in**：以……计价
>
> **falls short of**：不足以
>
> **jurisdiction**：管辖区域/范围an area or a country in which a particular system of laws has authority
>

7 Why not go back to basics? Gold, the original reserve asset, is a large liquid market outside any one jurisdiction’s control. Researchers at Citigroup, a bank, estimate that most of the reserves that Russia can currently **marshal** are in gold and the Chinese yuan. Yet the West’s sanctions are so expansive that they prohibit many potential buyers from purchasing the assets Russia has accumulated over the years. Even a would-be **counterparty** in a neutral or friendly country will think twice about transacting with a central bank under sanctions, if it risks their own access to the financial plumbing of the dollar system.

> **marshal** ：结集；收集；安排
>
> **counterparty**：订约方；交易对方
>
> **financial plumbing**：金融管道/系统
>

8 There has been more adventurous speculation, too. Zoltan Pozsar of Credit Suisse, a bank, has suggested that China sell Treasuries in order to lease ships and buy up Russian commodities, arguing that the global monetary system is shifting from one backed by government bonds to one that is backed by commodities. Bold as the forecast is, it is also **emblematic** of the few conventional options available to reserve managers.

> **emblematic**:  标志
>

9 And that lack of good solutions points to another **drastic** approach: that countries limit their use of reserves for their financial defence altogether. Various tools of **autarky**, such as tighter capital controls, could become more attractive. Governments also typically rely on reserves as the last guarantee that they can service **foreign-currency debt**s. But if that guarantee is no longer absolute, then they are less likely to be comfortable issuing dollar- and euro-denominated bonds at all. Private companies may be **prod**ded to **de-dollarise**, too. If you don’t invest in the first place, you won’t be rugged.

> **drastic** ：极端的；急剧的；严厉的；猛烈的
>
> **prod**：刺激
>
> **autarky**：自给自足(政策)
>
> **foreign-currency debt**：外币债务
>
> **de-dollarise**：去美元化
>
> **Rug pull**: 直译：地毯从脚下被抽走，突然失去支撑点，生活中常常指背叛 股市：毫无征兆的暴跌
>
> When institutional investors do a **rug pull**, retail investors oftentimes get stuck/trapped.
>
> 机构投资者割韭菜（突然卖掉自己很多的股票导致股价下跌）散户就被套住了。
>

