# D623 What does India’s government have against Bollywood?
> **menace**：威胁
 > 

1 If bollywood is India’s secular religion, then the Khans—Aamir, Salman and Shah Rukh—are its holy trinity. The three actors, who are unrelated, have for three decades sat at the top of India’s colossal Hindi-language film industry, their films, their characters and their personas wallpapering the country’s imagination. They are, perhaps as much as the prime minister and the captain of the national cricket team, the most recognisable faces in India. They also happen to be Muslim.

2 For most Indians, to the extent they think about it at all, that is a source of pride: the Khans’ pre-eminence a sign of the country’s tolerant secularism. But it sticks in the craw of Hindu chauvinists, who are well represented by the government of Narendra Modi, the prime minister, and his Bharatiya Janata Party (bjp). All three Khans have faced criticism from bjp figures in recent years, along with the usual gibes that they should “go to Pakistan”. By the debased standards of Indian political discourse, where even the use of the indigenous Urdu language is seen as “Abrahamisation”, that is not surprising.

> **Bharatiya Janata Party**：印度人民党
>
> **gibe**:嘲讽
>
> **secularism**：世俗主义；政教分离；世俗化
>
> **craw** :（禽的）嗉囊
>
> **chauvinist**：沙文主义者a person who has an aggressive and unreasonable belief that their own country is better than all other
>
> **debase**:v.降低…的价值；败坏…的名誉
>
> **discourse**:话语；语篇；论文；演讲
>
> **abrahamisation**：天启宗教即世界三大一神宗教犹太教、基督教、伊斯兰教，三者都给予亚伯拉罕(易卜拉欣)崇高地位。三教都发源于西亚沙漠地区，来源于闪族人的原始宗教。
>

3 What is odd, however, is that the government’s assault on Bollywood has—after a drumbeat of harassment against smaller figures and lesser-known producer-types—reached the very top of the industry. On October 3rd, the Narcotics Control Bureau (ncb), a national law-enforcement agency, arrested several people in a drug bust on a cruise ship off the coast of Mumbai, where the industry is based. Among them was Aryan Khan, the 23-year-old son of Shah Rukh Khan, arguably the best-loved of the trinity. The ncb claimed to have seized lots of drugs, though it has since admitted that none were found on Aryan. He was nonetheless remanded in custody and denied bail until October 28th, even as it was granted to others. News channels have been running blanket coverage. Politicians from across the country have weighed in.

> **drumbeat**. (一系列的或持续的)警示; 持续的压力 [美国英语]
>
> **Narcotics Control Bureau**:**国家毒品控制局**
>
> **drug bust**:突击搜捕毒品及贩毒者；毒品搜查
>
> **Mumbai**：[mʌm'bai]孟买
>
> **trinity**:三个一组；【宗教】三位一体（圣父、圣子及圣灵合为上帝）the union of Father, Son and Holy Spirit as one God
>
> **bail** ：保释
>
> **remand**：收押在监审问
>
> **blanket coverage**: 统一承保；之全额保障；全体覆盖
>

4 The whole stink has a familiar tang to it. Last year, as cases of covid-19 were rising in India’s first wave and the bjp was preparing for elections in the poor eastern state of Bihar, a young actor called Sushant Singh Rajput—a Bihari—committed suicide in Mumbai. Pro-government news channels—ie, most of them—ran hysterical items about Bollywood’s drug culture, and accused Rhea Chakraborty, the dead man’s grieving girlfriend, of ensnaring him with the demon weed. The ncb arrested Ms Chakraborty, who spent a month in prison before being granted bail.

> **tang**：浓烈的气味或味道
>
> **ensnare**：使落入陷阱; 使中圈套
>
> **hysterical**: 歇斯底里的；情绪狂暴不可抑止的；极其可笑的
>
> **Bihar**:比哈尔邦；比哈省；印度东北部比哈尔邦
>

5 This time it is in Uttar Pradesh that elections are looming. The bjp’s campaign has spun its own version of a preposterous Bollywood plot, casting the state, one of India’s most backward, as a shining beacon for the rest of the country. Since that is hardly guaranteed to work, it is also relying on its old strategy of stoking tensions. The circus around Aryan’s arrest is a sequel of last year’s drama.

> **Uttar Pradesh**：北方邦;印度北方省
>
> **spin**: (政治) 粉饰
>
> **preposterous**：荒谬的[表不满]
>
> **stoke**:给(机车等)烧火[加煤,添煤]；把(火)拨旺
>
> **sequel** :续集；结果；后续的事；随之而来的事
>

6 That the target this time is Muslim is only an added bonus. Harassing Bollywood carries more important benefits for the bjp, including annoying the government of Maharashtra, a rich western state of which Mumbai is the capital. That antipathy dates from 2019, when the local Shiv Sena, itself a pro-Hindu party, broke its long-standing alliance with the bjp. Mr Modi and his cronies have never forgiven their erstwhile allies.

> **Maharashtra**：马哈拉施特拉邦（印度西部邦）
>
> **erstwhile**：以前的; 往昔的
>
> **antipathy**：不相容
>
> **crony** ：密友；朋党
>
> **Shiv Sena**:湿婆神军党；湿婆军党；温婆神军
>
> a Hindu nationalist organization based in Maharashtra in western India
>
> **sena**：(in India) the army: used in the names of certain paramilitary political organizations (印度)军队
>

7 Yet there is a more fundamental reason for the bjp’s assault on Bollywood than electioneering, political point-scoring or the sheer joy of bashing Muslims. Since coming to power in 2014, the bjp has demolished the national opposition, co-opted independent institutions, tamed India’s once-vibrant press and obstructed free speech. It is building a cartoonish personality cult around Mr Modi, printing his picture on everything from sacks of government-subsidised rice to covid vaccination certificates.

> **obstruct**：阻拦
>
> **co-opt**：团结;拉拢；笼络
>
> **cartoonish**:卡通化
>

8 Bollywood may well be the last independent source of influence in India. It is inherently patriotic, its superstars mostly apolitical and, after the past year, most of its members terrified of speaking in any manner that might attract Delhi’s attention. But that is not enough. The fact that its movies show Hindus and Muslims—and all sorts of Indians—getting along, that it tackles issues of social injustice, and that its characters and the real-life people behind them espouse liberal values, is simply too great a threat to Mr Modi’s narrow vision of a Hindu nation. If ensuring that Indians can imagine themselves only on the bjp’s terms means destroying one of country’s great cultural and commercial successes, that is a price the party and its prime minister seem willing to pay.

> **inherently**:内在；固有；本来；从根本上说
>
> **apolitical**: (人)对政治不感兴趣的; 不关心政治的
>
> **espouse**：拥护
>

