# D374 The CIA blames MBS for the murder of Jamal Khashoggi
> If you are **fed up**, you are unhappy, bored, or tired of something, especially something that you have been experiencing for a long time. 厌倦的
 > 

1 IT WAS hardly a fitting **epitaph** for one of the Arab world’s best-known journalists—three pages of dry, bureaucratic prose that revealed nothing new. On February 26th America released an intelligence report on the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, who was killed by the Saudi government in October 2018. The report should have been published two years earlier, but was blocked by the administration of Donald Trump, in a **brazen** effort to shield Saudi Arabia from the consequences.

> N-COUNT可数名词An **epitaph** is a short piece of writing about someone who is dead, often carved on their gravestone. 碑文; 墓志铭
>
> ADJ形容词If you describe a person or their behaviour as **brazen**, you mean that they are very bold and do not care what other people think about them or their behaviour. 无所顾忌的
>

2 By the time the CIA assessment finally emerged it was an **anticlimax**, its conclusions already known: America believes Muhammad bin Salman, the kingdom’s crown prince and de facto ruler, approved the operation to capture or kill Mr Khashoggi. The consequences were underwhelming as well. America announced sanctions, including asset freezes, on a Saudi official, Ahmed al-Asiri, who was **implicated** in the murder plot; it also imposed visa bans on **scores of** Saudis accused of targeting dissidents. There were no sanctions for the crown prince, who has previously denied ordering the killing, just the promise of a difficult relationship with President Joe Biden.

> N-VAR有变体名词You can describe something as an **anticlimax** if it disappoints you because it happens after something that was very exciting, or because it is not as exciting as you expected. 令人失望的事物; 令人扫兴的事物
>
> ADJ[非正式]形容词If you use **underwhelming** to describe the response or reaction to something, you mean that people were not very impressed or excited by it. 令人失望的
>
> **scores of :** 大量的
>

3 Mr Khashoggi’s murder captured the world’s attention as few crimes do. In part that was because of his **stature** as a veteran journalist, a man acquainted with almost everyone who worked on the Middle East, among them diplomats, journalists and analysts. And the details of the crime were **grisly**. He entered the Saudi **consulate** in Istanbul seeking paperwork for his upcoming wedding and never emerged. For days the Saudis insisted they knew nothing of his **whereabouts**. In fact he was murdered inside the consulate, **suffocated** and his body sawn into pieces by a squad of assassins flown in on private jets. One member of the team even played the role of **body double**, dressing in Mr Khashoggi’s clothes and walking past surveillance cameras on Istanbul’s streets to make it appear that he had departed safely.

> The **stature** of a person is the importance and reputation that they have. 名望
>
> Something that is **grisly** is extremely unpleasant, and usually involves death and violence. 恐怖的
>
> A **consul** is an official who is sent by his or her government to live in a foreign city in order to help other citizens from his or her country who are in that foreign city. 领事
>
> body double: a person who substitutes for a star for the filming of a scene that involves shots of the body rather than the face 替身演员
>
> 卡舒吉于2018年9月28日进入伊斯坦布尔的沙特领事馆办理离婚证明，以便与土耳其女子哈蒂杰·坚吉兹（Hatice Cengiz）结婚。
>

4 This has all been public knowledge since 2018. The CIA quickly assigned blame to Prince Muhammad, and that conclusion leaked out. Turkey, a rival of Saudi Arabia, eagerly fed details of its own investigation to journalists. The newly-released American report, issued by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, adds no new information. It offers no hard evidence of Prince Muhammad’s **culpability**, for example. Instead it cites circumstantial details such as his control of the Saudi security apparatus and the involvement of a close adviser. “It [is] highly unlikely that Saudi officials would have carried out an operation of this nature without the crown prince’s authorisation,” the report concludes.

> ADJ[正式][usu ADJ n]形容词**Circumstantial** evidence is evidence that makes it seem likely that something happened, but does not prove it. 好像发生过却无法证明的
>
> N-VAR有变体名词The **apparatus** of an organization or system is its structure and method of operation. (机构、体系的) 组织和运作方式
>
> **culpability: **可责；有过失；有罪
>

5 Perhaps America’s spies know more than they **let on**. What they released was only a **redacted** version of a classified report. For Mr Trump, though, even that was too much to reveal. Prince Muhammad enjoyed a close relationship with his administration, particularly with Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and adviser. In 2019 Congress passed a law that required him to issue an unclassified version which could be made public. Mr Trump ignored it. Bob Woodward, a Washington Post journalist, said the president later bragged about shielding the prince: “I saved his ass,” Mr Trump reportedly said. “I was able to get Congress to leave him alone.”

> **let on** :to allow (something, such as a secret) to be known; reveal 使(某事，如秘密)为人所知; 泄露
>
> **redacted**: to compose or draft (an edict, proclamation, etc) 撰写
>
> ADJ形容词**Classified** information or documents are officially secret. 机密的
>

6 Mr Biden, who as candidate called Saudi Arabia a **pariah**, seems determined to end the embrace. Aside from releasing the report, he has pointedly refused to call the crown prince. Aides explain this as a simple matter of protocol. “The president’s counterpart is King Salman,” said Jen Psaki, the press secretary (the two men spoke on February 25th). The task of calling Prince Muhammad, who is also the Saudi defence minister, instead fell to Lloyd Austin, America’s defence secretary. The **protocol** argument is not wrong—but were Mr Biden so inclined, it would hardly be beneath his station to speak with the crown prince of a longtime American partner.

> N-COUNT[表不满]可数名词If you describe someone as a **pariah**, you mean that other people dislike them so much that they refuse to associate with them. 社会遗弃儿,贱民
>
> **Protocol** is a system of rules about the correct way to act in formal situations. 礼节
>

7 Mr Biden’s silence, and his **alacrity** in releasing the report, speaks to America’s **exasperation** with Prince Muhammad. The list of grievances is long. There is the war in Yemen, now in its seventh year, a strategic failure and a humanitarian disaster. On February 4th Mr Biden announced that America would end its military support for the Saudi-led coalition fighting there. Many Democrats are also angry about the kingdom’s sweeping crackdown on critics. Mr Khashoggi’s case attracted the most attention, but authorities have targeted everyone from conservative clerics to women’s-rights activists. (A Saudi court released Loujain al-Hathloul, a well-known activist, on February 10th, though she remains under a travel ban and other restrictions.)

> N-UNCOUNT[正式][usu 'with' N]不可数名词If you do something **with** **alacrity**, you do it quickly and eagerly. 欣然; 乐意
>
> **exasperation:** 恼怒；恶化；惹人恼怒的事
>

8 The crown prince’s defenders do not dispute that he has been ruthless. Instead they argue that he has no choice. Since 1953 Saudi Arabia has been ruled by the ageing sons of the **late King** Abdulaziz, the founder of the modern state. Prince Muhammad’s elevation is a **long-overdue** shift from **gerontocracy**. But he has powerful enemies in the kingdom, from lesser royals jealous of his rise to a once-untouchable clergy he has tried to diminish. Many would be happy to see him pulled away from the throne.

> You use **late** when you are talking about someone who is dead, especially someone who has died recently. 已故的
>
> If you say that a change or an event is **overdue**, you mean that you think it should have happened before now. 早该发生的
>
> **gerontocracy**: government by old people 老年政府
>

9 As critics go, though, Mr Khashoggi was a mild one, a member of the Saudi establishment who wanted reform rather than revolution. Ms Hathloul agitated for the right to drive, a right that was later granted to Saudi women. Just 35 years old, the crown prince has cemented a reputation as a vicious, impulsive ruler. The CIA report appears to confirm that view. Apart from keeping him at a distance, though, Mr Biden has not yet decided how to deal with him—a question that may **vex** many American presidents to come.

> ADJ形容词If someone is **agitated**, they are very worried or upset, and show this in their behaviour, movements, or voice. 焦虑不安的
>
> V-I不及物动词If people **agitate** **for** something, they protest or take part in political activity in order to get it. 抗争
>
> V-T及物动词If someone or something **vexes** you, they make you feel annoyed, puzzled, and frustrated. 使烦恼; 使迷惑; 使沮丧
>
> https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2021/02/26/us/report-jamal-khashoggi-killing.html
>

