---
description: Three mechanisms for crypto contagion
---

# D863 Blockchain reaction 
> contagion：蔓延；接触传染
 > 

1.This year’s Juneteenth holiday in America gave crypto buffs little time to re­flect or **rejoice**. On June 18th bitcoin reached a low of $17,600—its first **tumble** below $20,000 since 2020—before recovering a little the next day. The sell­off sparked over $1bn in **liquidation**s, as traders who had borrowed money to make big bets failed to post more **collateral**.

> **Juneteenth**: 六月节（美国于6月19日庆祝黑奴解放的节日）
>
> **rejoice**：非常高兴；深感欣喜
>
> **buff**：爱好者；行家
>
> **tumble** ：跌倒；摔倒；倒塌
>
> **liquidation**：清算；（债务的）清偿；（资产的）变现
>
> **collateral**：抵押物；担保品
>

2.Overall, bitcoin is about 70% below its peak in November; ether, another crypto-currency, is down by around 80%. As prices have fallen, cracks have appeared in the crypto infrastructure. Babel Finance and Celsius, two crypto lenders, have paused withdrawals after struggling to meet **redemption**s; their rivals have trimmed their balance ­sheets, causing a **credit crunch**. Third Arrow, a crypto hedge fund, has failed to meet margin calls, and Hoo, an exchange, has halted transactions.

> **redemption**：赎回（股票等）
>
> **credit crunch**: 信贷危机/紧缩
>
> **Balance sheet**：资产负债表
>

3.The risk of a fresh **downward** spiral remains. Traders that were not wiped out have managed to post more collateral with decentralised­ ﬁnance (DeFi) lenders; the level at which **margin calls** are triggered brieﬂy dipped. But data from Parsec Finance, an app, suggest that the threshold has risen again to nearly $900 a coin for **ether**, from $700 on June 20th (at the time of writing, the price of ether was $1,100). Recent events have also shown how three weaknesses in crypto can amplify trouble: **fuzzy** valuations, **incestuous** relationships and the lack of a liquidity **backstop**.

> **downward**: 下降的；向下的
>
> **margin call**：保证金追缴
>
> **ether**：以太；
>
> **fuzzy**: 模糊不清的
>
> **incestuous**: 小团体的；排外的；乱伦的
>
> **backstop**: 托架；后障
>

4.Start with valuations. Some of the most commonly traded crypto tokens are complex products such as **derivatives** and “tokens” issued by DeFi platforms, for which there are no established valuation models. The lack of an **anchor** means trust in pricing can vanish **in a jiﬀy**; the eﬀect is magniﬁed on weekends, when trading volumes are thinner. Problems in parts of the crypto market can end up **rippling** outwards, **not least** to bitcoin, the benchmark for the entire universe.

> **derivative**: 衍生产品
>
> **anchor**: 锚
>
> **jiﬀy**：瞬间, in a jiffy
>
> **ripple**：使起涟漪
>
> **not least**：尤其
>

5.A second channel of **contagion** comes from the high degree of **interconnectedness** between DeFi platforms. This is partly the result of intensifying competition. The amount of money invested in DeFi, after a period of explosive growth, has fallen over the past year. As crypto lenders have **vied** to attract a shrinking pile of dollars, they have promised ever­higher yields to depositors, which, in turn, has led them to invest users’ funds in riskier projects—typically other lending and yield-generating platforms. When the price of one asset falls, the eﬀects **cascade** through the system.

> **contagion**: 蔓延；接触传染
>
> **interconnectedness**: 相互关联性
>
> **vie**:  竞争；冒…危险；〈罕〉下(赌注)
>
> **cascade **: 倾泻；流注
>

6.Celsius is a case in point. In December it claimed to have $24bn in crypto assets under management, which it had lured by offering yields to depositors of as much as 18%. To achieve those returns, it made loans to market makers, **hedge fund**s and DeFi projects. When prices sank, however, so did the value of those assets. Some, such as the $400m Celsius held in “**staked** ether”, a derivative, proved **illiquid**. That left the ﬁrm unable to meet growing demand for withdrawals. When Celsius eventually froze funds on June 14th, bitcoin sank by 25%, partly on fears of **contagion**.

> **illiquid**: 非现金的；不能立即兑现的
>
> **contagion**: 蔓延；接触传染
>
> **hedge fund**: 对冲基金
>
> **stake**：质押；拿…冒险；用桩支撑
>

7.These **goings-­on** revealed a third weakness: the lack of a liquidity backstop to prevent a **free­fall** in asset prices. In mainstream ﬁnance, regulators provide a safety­ net. But no institution exists to mop up stressed crypto assets of systemic importance (at least to the crypto system), such as **stablecoin**s, or to **bail out** important ﬁrms. Deposits with crypto lenders are not insured. In conventional ﬁnance, such **fail­safe**s reduce the risk of **panic ­selling** when prices tumble.

> **goings-on**：诡异活动；发生的事情
>
> **free­fall**: （价值）突降不止；（人或物的）自由下落；
>
> **mop up**: 吸取(利润等)；痛击；
>
> **stablecoin**：稳定币
>
> **bail out**: 摆脱困境；纾困
>
> **fail­safe:** 故障保护
>
> **panic­ selling**: 恐慌性出售；恐慌性抛售
>
> **crypto ：加密**
>

8.Were bitcoin to drop below $15,000, liquidations could accelerate so much that posting enough collateral or raising funds to stop the fall may become hard, say Monsur Hussain and Alastair Sewell of Fitch, a rating agency. But it would probably take a trigger for that to happen: a huge hack at an exchange, say, or a big economic surprise. And time seems to be on crypto’s side. Crypto platforms, and the risks they take with their assets, may soon come under regulatory scrutiny. Some stablecoins are trying to build sounder reserves: Tether, the issuer of the world’s largest such coin, has said it plans to replace its holdings of commercial paper with safer Treasuries. Some of the makings of a frosty crypto winter, though, are still in place.

> **liquidation**: 平仓；清盘
>

