# D246 A subsidies scrap between Boeing and Airbus comes to an end (maybe)
1 A 16-YEAR FIGHT at the World Trade Organisation (WTO) between Boeing, an American planemaker, and Airbus, a European one, over illegal subsidies resembles a heavyweight boxing bout in which both sides raise their gloves to claim the round. And so it was on October 13th, when the WTO ruled that the EU can impose tariffs on $4bn-worth of American goods annually. The award is lower than last year’s decision that America is allowed to **slap** duties on $7.5bn in European goods. But it was much higher than the Americans once **braced for**. More important, both aerospace **titans** look **knocked about**.

> N-COUNT可数名词In law, an **award** is a sum of money that a court decides should be given to someone. (赔偿金等的) 裁定额
>

2 The **counterpunching** at the WTO began in 2004. After Airbus first overtook it in aircraft deliveries, Boeing complained that its rival was boosted by government support eventually amounting to $22bn in repayable “launch aid”. Airbus soon **parried** with its own claim that Boeing had benefited from $24bn in favourable tax breaks, as well as research-and-development support from NASA and the Pentagon.

> “Launch aid” is a term sometimes used by the US as a misnomer for royalty based financing granted by certain EU Member States in individual circumstances to a number of companies, including Airbus. Since its creation in 1970, some Airbus aircraft development programmes have been financed in part by royalty based financing, otherwise known as “launch investment”. This kind of finance works in the same way as commercial investments.
>

3 The WTO eventually determined that both firms had received illegal subsidies. America used last year’s win to slap tariffs on everything from French cheese to Scotch. Airbus now faces **levies** of 15%. The EU will be permitted to impose its new duties after October 27th.

4 The latest ruling will not **put paid to** the **bickering**. Boeing says that the **contentious** tax break from Washington state has been **repealed**, so the looming EU tariffs are unjustified. Airbus says it is now in full compliance with the rules, and grumbles that the WTO **appellate** body that decides such matters is in **limbo**. America’s long-standing claims of unfair treatment **at the hands of** the body have led it to **veto** new appointments, leaving the arbiter inquorate.
put paid to : stop abruptly; destroy.

5 With no **knockout blow** on either side, the **spat** may end in a negotiated settlement. America has been more reluctant to talk. But it may reconsider, given the size of the EU’s permitted **retaliation**—and Boeing’s **precarious** position. The aerospace giant has more to fear from the devastating effect of the pandemic on the world’s air travel. The continued grounding of the 737 MAX, its **cash cow**, after two fatal crashes means that battered carriers are cancelling orders without penalty.

6 Airbus has not escaped **unscathed**. Last month it said it would cut more jobs on top of the 15,000, out of a global workforce of 130,000, announced in June. It has **shaved** output to 40% of capacity. Like Boeing, it has lost around half its market value since the start of the year.

7 The European firm nevertheless looks in a **bouncier** mood. It is said to be planning to **ramp up** production of its A320 single-aisle aircraft as early as next year, perhaps hoping to win 737 MAX customers. Airbus also has a broader range of planes and a factory in Alabama, which lets it escape tariffs on jets sold to American customers (though not on imported parts), whereas Boeing assembles all its planes at home. Airbus has just unveiled plans to bring a hydrogen-powered net-zero-emissions aircraft to the skies by 2035. Boeing, already **weighed down** by the MAX **debacle**, may do best to put yesterday’s fight behind it and prepare for the next bout.■

