# D633 Will Singles’ Day, China’s Black Friday, be different this year?
1 AT ONE SECOND after midnight, when the calendar flipped to November 11th, millions of Chinese shoppers will have started clicking themselves into a frenzy of consumer excess. Through their smartphones, computers and tablets, they will take advantage of steep discounts and other incentives offered by China’s biggest online retailers, who have been busily laying the groundwork with advertising campaigns and assiduous logistical preparation. Over the next 24 hours, shoppers will spend billions of dollars, and receive hundreds of millions of packages ordered online at their doors. How did a frivolous and informal Chinese holiday evolve into the world’s biggest single-day retail event? And will it be any different this year, amid a regulatory assault on tech that has ensnared e-commerce firms?

2 November 11th is “Singles’ Day” in China, a holiday that now occasions these massive movements of merchandise. Since the 1990s it has been observed casually and playfully by unmarried Chinese to celebrate—or perhaps bemoan—their single status. The date was chosen because of the four ones it contains (11/11). Initially, a bit of gift-giving was part of the fun, but it had more to do with socialising and special foods, such as long sticks of fried dough that resemble the number one. It is also called “Bare Branch Day”, after the sadly evocative Chinese slang term for a single man. But it is commonly referred to as “Double Eleven”.


3 It is Alibaba—China’s biggest online retailer, and the biggest beneficiary of the phenomenon—that claims the credit for transforming Singles’ Day into a shopping orgy. In 2009, one of its executives was trawling the calendar for an autumn date to serve as the foundation for a Chinese shopping day that could rival America's Black Friday—the day after Thanksgiving that marks the beginning of the Christmas shopping season. The goal was to use discounts and other one-off promotions to lure China’s already-avid consumer class into online retail. The promotion was an immediate success and has grown since. In 2020 shoppers bought more than $78bn worth of goods on Alibaba’s shopping platforms, such as Taobao, up from just $9.3bn in 2014. In just 30 minutes of “presales” (when offers are made available before Singles’ Day) last year Taobao processed $7.5bn-worth of sales, about as much as Amazon is thought to have sold in its “Prime Day” in October, which lasts 48 hours. Many other internet groups have tried to mimic Alibaba’s success.

4 The shopping marathon may be more muted this year, however, owing to political changes since the last Singles’ Day. Last November China was only a week into what would soon become a major crackdown on tech companies. Jack Ma, the co-founder of Alibaba, was at the centre of that storm. His company has suffered more than others as China has implemented a swathe of new rules for tech platforms that govern antitrust activities and their openness to competitors. Alibaba was subject to a record $2.8bn fine in April.

> **swathe**：长条
>
> **a swathe of**:一片，一系列
>

5 Another facet of regulation in China this year has been the concept of “common prosperity”, one of President Xi Jinping’s core policy initiatives. At its heart the campaign is meant to make China a more equitable society. Will any of this change the nature of Singles’ Day? Many experts believe that, fundamentally, it will not. Liu Jing, of the Cheung Kong Graduate School of Business in Beijing, says that even the sales of luxury goods should be viewed as an aspect of economic prosperity. Sales figures have increased each year since the festival began and many expect them to do the same again this year. China’s economy has returned to growth after the shock of covid-19, if more slowly than before the pandemic. But festivities are likely to be toned down. Stars such Nicole Kidman and Pharrell Williams have appeared at events in the past, often alongside Mr Ma. This year will probably be quieter. And don’t expect Mr Ma to appear on stage again soon.

