---
description: An intense, improbable romance comes thrillingly to life
---

# D518 The love song of J. Maynard Keynes
1 He was a renowned English economist with a history of affairs with men. She was a Russian ballerina whose former **paramours** included a Polish **count** and Igor Stravinsky. Yet when John Maynard Keynes went, night after night, to watcDopingDopingDopingDopingDopingDopingDopingDopingDopingDopingDopingDopingDopingh Lydia Lopokova perform with the Ballets Russes in London in 1921, they fell **ecstatically** in love. It was, Keynes wrote, “a dreadful business”; he was “almost beyond rescue”.

> **paramours**：情人 [老式]
>
> **count**: A count is a European nobleman. 伯爵
>
> **ecstatically** /ɪkˈstætɪkli/ ：adv. 心醉神迷地；狂喜地
>
> **dreadful** ：adj. 可怕的；糟透的，令人不快的
>
> **Igor Stravinsky**: 伊戈尔 斯特拉文斯基（美籍俄罗斯作曲家）
>
> **Keynes**：凯恩斯
>

2 Extracts from the letters in which their **pas de deux** played out were performed on July 9th by Helena Bonham Carter and Tobias Menzies, both recently of “The Crown”. The venue was Charleston, the farmhouse in Sussex that was home to the painters Vanessa Bell and Duncan Grant, which they turned into a **floor-to-ceiling** work of art. It became a **retreat** for other members of the Bloomsbury Group, including Keynes (once Grant’s lover). Now a museum, Charleston is hosting a season of outdoor events; it asked Holly Dawson, an in-house researcher, to shape the letters into a collage of the couple’s life together.

> **floor-to-ceiling**：落地式的
>
> **retreat**：隐居处; 休养处
>
> **pas de deux**: 芭蕾双人舞
>
> **collage**：抽象拼贴画（用报纸、布、压平的花等碎片拼合而成的）
>

3 Lopokova’s writing, reckons Ms Dawson, “comes straight from her bones” and today “goes straight to our bones”. But a century ago, the Bloomsbury set were frightfully **snobbish** about her. Bell advised Keynes that she would make “a very expensive wife” and was “altogether to be preferred as a mistress”. Virginia Woolf thought she had “the soul of a **squirrel**”. Their disapproval was useless. “I kiss you and re-kiss you and pro-kiss you,” Keynes declared, **conjugating** his desire. “I **gobble** you”, Lopokova wrote, “I re-gobble you” and “gobble you from head to foot”.

> **snobbish**：势利的; 恃才傲物的 [表不满]
>
> **conjugate[ˈkɑːndʒəɡeɪt]**：列举(动词)变化
>
> **gobble**：狼吞虎咽地吃
>
> **squirrel**: n. 松鼠；松鼠毛皮
>

4 It wasn’t all “foxy licks”, though. The piece **charts** the relationship from **infatuation** to dependence, around private obstacles (she was already married), across separations (she away on tour, he at summits) and through the national trauma of the second world war (and, in 1941, Woolf’s suicide). Lopokova dreamed “that you and I were soldiers and when the bullet went through me I did not die”. She accompanied Keynes to the Bretton Woods conference and swam naked in a fishpond.

> **chart**：绘制
>
> **infatuation**：迷恋
>

5 Intimacy and power-broking are **interwoven** in Ms Dawson’s artful arrangement. Power also **ebb**s and swirls between the couple, as it can in long marriages. Keynes was **eminent** and brilliant; Lopokova spoke what he called “Lydian English”, sprinkled with **malapropisms**. Yet he needed her, not only to support his work and later his **infirmity**, but for her creativity and capacity for joy. “Try to forget shares markets fortunes”, she told him in 1937, “because it must **crumple** the muscles of your heart.”

> **interweave**: v. 使交织，互相编织；使紧密结合
>
> **ebb**: vi./n. : 衰退；减少；衰落
>
> **eminent** : adj. 杰出的；有名的；明显的
>
> **malapropism[ˈmæləprɑːpɪzəm]**：由于与发音相似词的混淆而无心地对词的错误使用; 特别是由此引发荒谬的的效果，文字误用；词语荒唐误用
>
> **infirmity**： 虚弱；疾病；衰弱；缺点
>
> **crumple**：弄皱; 起皱
>

6 A former ballerina and student at the London School of Economics, Ms Dawson was an ideal person to craft their story. In **clipped upper-crust** **diction**, Mr Menzies impersonated Keynes as **halting wooer** and **weary** statesman. Ms Bonham Carter’s Russian accent and comic timing were delicious. On a bright, **blustery** evening the courtyard at Charleston, close to its statue-**strewn** walled garden, was the perfect spot for their funny, moving **recital** (a one-off, but you can stream it online).

> **upper-crust**：上等阶层 [非正式]
>
> **clipped**： (尤指上等阶级说话声音) 清脆快速的
>
> **diction**：发音、措辞、言语
>
> **halting**：结结巴巴的; 吞吞吐吐的 [ADV with v]
>
> **wooer**: n. 求爱者；求婚者；追求者
>
> **weary** : adj. 疲倦的；厌烦的；令人厌烦的:
>
> **blustery** ：刮旋风的
>
> **strewn**：散落的
>
> **recital**：(通常是一个人的) 朗诵会; 演奏会
>

7 Across the fields lies Tilton, the house that became Keynes’s and Lopokova’s own country home. There, after he died in 1946, she lived out the grief that is the last phase of love’s cycle. “Peoples of today do not know how great many things were lovely yesterday,” she lamented. “But today is today and yesterday is history.” ■
“Lydia & Maynard: Love Letters” is available to stream at Charleston.org.uk until the end of 2021

