---
description: Britain’s government isn’t working well. But the Tories have got the wrong ideas for how to fix it
---

# D537 Remaking the British state
1 The year was 1976 and revolution was **in the air.** Punk was destroying **orthodoxies** in the music business. **Concorde** was breaking the sound barrier. The economy was going **down the tube**s. And Lord Hailsham, a former Conservative **Lord Chancellor** and old boy of Eton, Oxford and the Rifle Brigade, urged the **overthrow** of what he called Britain’s “elective dictatorship”—the **overweening** executive, whose power, in Britain’s parliamentary model, was **untrammelled** by the **checks and balances** of the courts and legislature that restrict it in most democracies.

> **in the air**：流行中
>
> **orthodoxy**：正教；正统性
>
> **Concorde**: (英法合作制造的)协和式超音速客机
>
> **down to the tube**: in a state of deterioration or failure
>
> **Lord Chancellor**：英国和威尔士上议院的大法官 [英国英语]
>
> **overthrow** : 推翻；打倒；赶下台
>
> **Overweening**: 傲慢的；自负的；过于自信的
>
> **Untrammelled**: 不受限制的；无拘束的；自由自在的
>
> **checks and balances**: 制约与均衡；权力制衡
>

2 Since then, the **executive**—made up of ministers and the people who do things on their behalf—has been constrained in many ways. The European Union’s powers have grown, and in the 1990s Tony Blair weakened the executive by strengthening other parts of government, creating a Supreme Court, starting a reform of the **House of Lords**, **devolving** power from Westminster and granting independence to the **Bank of England**.

> **The executive**:  (政府的) 行政部门
>
> **House of Lords**: 上议院
>
> **devolve**: 移交；移归；流[滚]向下(向前)
>
> **Bank of England**: 英国中央银行英格兰银行
>

3 Now a Conservative counter-revolution is under way, driven by radicals in and around Number 10. They believe that the executive is the expression of the will of the British people, so to limit its power is to **muzzle** democracy. And they complain that government is far too slow. Frustration over the difficulty of getting Brexit done has **fuse**d with an enthusiasm for Silicon Valley’s **mantra**—move fast and break things—into a determination to speed government up.

> **Muzzle**: （给狗）戴口套；压制；使缄默
>
> **fuse**: 熔合；熔接；给…装信管；给…装导火线
>
> **Mantra**: 曼怛罗（某些宗教的念咒）；咒语
>

4 Accordingly, they are pursuing a programme of radical reform to the British state. Brexit is the boldest step, but it is only the first. The Tory plan is to **unchain** the executive by limiting judicial power, pushing back against **devolution** and reforming the civil service. Dominic Cummings, Boris Johnson’s recently **defenestrated** chief adviser, was one of the architects of this **transformation**, but it will continue without him (see article).

> **Unchain**: 给…解除锁链；解放;脱离
>
> **devolution**:权力下放；退化；转移
>
> **defenestrate**: remove or dismiss (someone) from a position of power or authority.
>
> **transformation**：改革
>

5 Plenty about Britain needs to change, but the reformers’ argument and direction of travel are both wrong. First, weakening devolution will not make the union stronger, it will only undermine it. The parliaments in the union’s smaller nations were created in response to a real demand for a government with which their people could identify better than they can with Westminster. Second, liberal democracy is not **majoritarianism**. It includes checks and balances on executive power designed both to protect the rights of individuals and minorities, and to promote good governance. None of the reformers, it is worth noting, advocates removing the Bank of England’s independence. That’s because of the wealth of evidence showing that constraining politicians’ power over monetary policy leads to better economic management.

> **majoritarianism**：多数主义
>

6 If evidence were needed against the **unshackling** of the executive, covid-19 has provided it. At the beginning of the pandemic, the government arrogated to itself vast powers, unthinkable in normal times. In some areas, that has worked. Most of what the Treasury has done has been accomplished efficiently and effectively. In others, money has been wasted and **chums** have bagged top jobs and fat contracts. Yet the government has failed to get the job done. Look abroad, meanwhile, for evidence of the efficacy of **devolution**: powerful, well-resourced local authorities have been central to the effort in Germany and South Korea, two of the countries that have managed the pandemic best.

> **unshackling**： 去掉……的镣铐，解放
>
> **arrogate (to yourself) something**: formal to claim that you have a particular right, position etc, without having the legal right to it
>
> **chum**：朋友、(作诱饵用的)肉末鱼肉末等 [美国英语]
>
> **devolution**： (中央机构或政府权力的) 下放
>

7 Brexit is indeed a good moment for a reset. The reformers are right to argue that the **civil service** needs more expertise, less **churn** and a powerful **cohort** of techies to digitise the operations of government. But their actions to undermine the political independence that gives career civil servants the confidence to say “No, minister” would make governance worse, not better.

> civil service: 政/公务
>
> **cohort**：朋友; 支持者; 助手[表不满]
>
> **churn**: 剧烈搅动；（使）猛烈翻腾；恶心（忧虑、厌恶或恐惧的强烈感觉）
>

8 The main impediment to getting things done is not the constraints on the executive but the people running it. Mr Blair was a highly effective prime minister even as he constrained the executive’s power. That was because he was focused and energetic, and surrounded himself with a team of clever, hard-working ministers. Mr Johnson needs to **emulate** him in both of these ways, and should start by replacing incompetent **ideologues** with some of the talented, experienced **mps** who have been excluded from the cabinet just because they are not Brexiteers.

> **emulate**：效仿
>
> **ideologues[ˈaɪdiəlɔːɡ]**：思想家，理论家，空想家
>
> **MP**：Member of Parliament，议员
>

9 The Tories are also right to advocate constitutional reform, but their proposals would take the country in precisely the wrong direction. The biggest issue which Mr Johnson will confront next year is Scottish independence. Instead of alienating Scots—on November 16th he described devolution as a “disaster”—he should focus on making the relationship work better. The pandemic has shown that the four parts of the United Kingdom struggle to co-operate on common problems. That job is supposed to fall to the joint ministerial committee of the four nations. It needs the power and status to act more like a real federation.

> **托利党**：是英国政党  。产生于17世纪末。19世纪中叶 演变为英国保守党。
>

10 Britain should have more devolution, not less. City mayors have had a good pandemic: their popular standing ought to be matched by resources and responsibility. The balance of power between the branches of government needs to shift away from the executive, not towards it. The legislature should have a second **chamber** with more credibility; that means replacing a selection process for the **House of Lords** that combines **feudalism** and **cronyism** with an elective one. Turning the Lords into a senate of the **devolved** nations and the regions would give it a useful dual role. The judges’ power to prevent ministers from acting unlawfully ought to be **bolstered**, not constrained. Regulators with the independence to **insulate** business from ministerial **whim** need to be set up to **wield** some of the powers that are returning from Brussels.

> **chamber**：议院
>
> **House of Lords**：上议院
>
> **cronyism[ˈkroʊniɪzəm]**：任人唯亲；任用亲信.
>
> **feudalism**：封建
>
> **devolve**：(权力、责任) 下放
>
> **bolstered**：巩固
>
> **insulate**：使隔 (冷) 热; 使隔音
>
> **whim** ：突发的念头
>
> **Wield**: 行使
>
> **L’état, c’est eux**
>

11 These changes to the way the executive and the constitution work would both strengthen British democracy and improve government’s ability to get things done. Restoring the elective dictatorship of half a century ago would not.

12 **Concorde**, the most memorable relic of 1976, was a thing of beauty, but it was also a commercial disaster that used up huge quantities of taxpayers’ money with virtually no **oversight**—just the thing for a prime minister with a taste for untrammelled power and grands projets. Mr Johnson would have loved it.

> **Concorde**： 协和式超音速喷射客机
>
> **oversight：n**.疏忽、adj. 监督的
>
> Unable to copy while content loads
>
> 注：此文发表于2020年11月，在D275-276已读过
>

