---
description: Italy is mounting a defence of the Mediterranean diet
---

# D734 A European bunfight breaks out over food labels
> **bunfight：a** tea party 茶会、争论
 > 

1 The treaty of **Versailles**, signed in 1919, is usually remembered for the humiliating punishments it **heaped on** Germany. But flip through the pages of the accord that ended the first world war and a lesser-known aim of the Allied powers appears: the protection of champagne. Article 275 ensured that never again would French palates have to suffer the **infamy** of tasting German-grown grapes **passed off as** Gallic fizz. Among diplomats and historians the treaty is not considered one of Europe’s finest hours, given its role in sparking the next world war. Pampered farmers are perhaps the only ones who remember it more fondly.

> **Versailles**：凡尔赛（法国城市）
>
> **heap abuse on sb**：肆意漫骂某人 ; 肆意谩骂某人
>
> **infamy**：声名狼藉; 臭名昭著
>
> Pass off as：被当作，充作
>
> **Pampered**：饮食过量的；饮食奢侈的
>

2 A century later, food remains the stuff of high politics in Europe. This year marks the 60th anniversary of the eu’s Common Agricultural Policy, which still manages to hijack a third of the bloc’s budget. Trade deals wanted by some member states are routinely scuppered to protect farmers in another (usually France). Now a new bunfight is gripping the continent. The European Commission in Brussels will this year propose rules that would require the nutritional qualities of all foods to be displayed on the front of their packaging. The idea is to **tip off** shoppers about what makes them fat. But the measure, backed by nutritionists, is being attacked by its opponents as nothing less than an assault on the European way of life.

> **hijack**：劫持、强行控制
>
> **scupper**：战胜; 毁灭; 使失去能力
>
> **tip off**：向…通风报信
>

3 Nearly all **grub** sold in Europe has had to **divulge** its nutritional qualities (or lack thereof) since 2016. But the **nagging** only goes so far. The information is found on the back of the pack, written in a font size usually reserved for the finer points of insurance contracts. In 2017 French food scientists developed a system that **distilled** that hard-to-read data into a simple “Nutri-Score”. A standard label placed where consumers can see it would provide colour-coded grades from an acceptable A to an **execrable** E. Public-health officials and consumer groups **laud** Nutri-Score’s simplicity and have pushed for its wider use. Backed by authorities in France, Germany and Spain among others, the system has been voluntarily adopted by many retailers. The commission thinks something like it should be mandatory across the eu.

> **grub**:食物
>
> **divulge/ daɪˈvʌldʒ /** ：泄露
>
> **nagging**：唠叨；挑剔
>
> **execrable**/ ˈeksɪkrəbl / ：恶劣的; 讨厌的
>
> **distill**:蒸馏; 提取…的精华
>
> **laud**:称赞；赞美；赞扬
>
> **execrable** :糟糕的；拙劣的
>

4 The sensible push to steer consumers away from unhealthy food has run into a problem inherent in any regulation designed for 27 countries: what is backed by most ends up **raising the hackles** of a few. In this case the problem is Italy. Nutri-Score is unkind to many staples of Italian **cuisine**. A meal of **prosciutto**, **gorgonzola** and tiramisu turns out to be entirely at the wrong end of the spectrum. Even olive oil, the **elixir** at the heart of the country’s famed Mediterranean diet, gets only an **amber light** from the grading system. For Italians, ever alert to the possibility that **condescending** northerners are holding them to an unreasonable standard, this is **provocation** enough. How can their food be bad when Italy has among the lowest adult obesity rates in the rich world?

> **cuisine [kwɪˈzin]**:烹饪；菜肴
>
> **elixir**:灵丹妙药；长生不老药；圣水
>
> **raise the hackle**：引起怀疑，触怒
>
> **prosciutto /**prəˈʃuːtəʊ / ：意大利熏火腿.
>
> **gorgonzola**/ ˌɡɔːɡənˈzəʊlə / ：戈贡佐拉奶酪.
>
> **amber light**：黄灯（琥珀色灯）
>
> **condescending**：显得高人一等的
>
> **provocation**：挑衅
>

5 Politics have helped turn the issue into a matter of national pride in Rome. Populists **rail against** what they call a **senseless** system cooked up by bloodless, tasteless **technocrat**s. Matteo Salvini of the far-right Lega party dismisses Nutri-Score as fit only for joyless **acolytes** of alcohol-free wine, fake meat and edible insects. Others **discern** a **menace** to Italian agriculture, designed to benefit **multinationals**. Mario Draghi, Italy’s prime minister and formerly chief of Europe’s central bank, is a technocrat himself. Yet to hold his **fractious** coalition together, he has had to make **disparaging** comments about Nutri-Score, too.

> **technocrat**:技术人员；专家政治论者
>
> **Rail against**:责骂
>
> **senseless**: 无意义的；无目的的；不明智的
>
> **acolytes**:侍者；助手;党羽
>
> **discern**：觉察出；了解，认识  ,
>
> **menace**：威胁
>
> **multinational**：跨国公司
>
> **fractious**：易怒的
>
> **disparaging**：贬低的
>

6 A crude lobbying operation complete with **dodgy** websites mimicking public-health agencies has popped up in opposition to Nutri-Score. It contrasts the terrible grade given to **parmesan** (E) with the passing mark of Coke Zero (B). How can two-thirds of the products served by kfc—a chicken outfit that owes its very existence to crispy-fried crust—be classified as no worse than mozzarella? The food-grading endeavour is painted as a ploy to undermine **ancestral** farming products: it is far easier to change the recipe for Coco Pops (whose formula was recently tweaked to achieve a B) than salami (a flat E).

> **dodgy**:狡诈的；可疑的;危险的；善于骗人的
>
> **parmesan**：帕尔马干酪
>
> **ancestral** :祖先的；祖传的
>
> **salami**：意大利蒜味腊肠
>
> **Coco pops**:
>

7 Nutri-Scorers point out that makers of processed foods, too, have lobbied against stricter labelling (though a few now endorse it, including Kellogg’s, which makes Coco Pops). Serge Hercberg, an academic who helped devise the scheme, describes it as an obvious health measure. Finding skewed comparisons is easy, but foods should be compared to alternatives in the same category: one cannot replace a can of Coke with a cup of olive oil (which, he notes, scores better than butter). Italy has a child obesity problem, and the Mediterranean diet it defends originally included rather more fruit and vegetables than makers of **cured ham** would like to admit. “Even if foods are ancestral, it does not mean they are good for you,” Mr Hercberg says. As for kfc, the parts of its menu that score well are **wholesome**: a side of **cherry tomatoes**, for example.

> **Wholesome** ：健康的
>
> **cured ham**: 腌制火腿
>
> **cherry tomato**：圣女果
>
> Food for thought
>

8 The Italian griping has **caught on**. Farmers in France and beyond worry bad scores for their products will **crimp** sales. Agriculture ministries are being **coaxed** to **pare back** Nutri-Score even where it has already been adopted. A proposal to create a special category for alcohol (a black F, sadly) is being used to galvanise more opponents. Italy has developed an alternative labelling scheme so confusing that it seems aimed at making a food’s healthiness utterly unknowable. And national governments will have plenty of opportunity to **hollow out** the commission’s proposals, as they did when the issue of food labelling last came up a decade ago.

> **catch on**: 明白；投合人心、流行
>
> **crimp**：限制、减少
>
> **coax**：劝诱
>
> **pare back**：缩减、削减
>
> **galvanise**：shock or excite (someone) into taking action.
>
> **hollow out**：使空心
>

9 They should not, however. For all the **raucous** disagreement, Nutri-Score’s fans and **detractors** are not so far apart. Italians are slim despite all that pecorino and gelato because they know these treats should be enjoyed in moderation. Professor Hercberg and others say much the same thing: everything is fine, if you adjust the quantities. Even a glass of Italian wine, perhaps. Salute!

> **raucous**/ ˈrɔːkəs / ：刺耳的
>
> **detractor**：诋毁者
>
> **pecorino**：佩科里诺干酪; 由羊奶制成
>

