---
description: The argument of “Rebels against the Raj” is about the future as much as the past
---

# D731 A book recalls the foreign agitators for India’s independence
> **agitator**：煽动者
 > 
> **raj**：英国统治印度的时期，1947年结束
 > 
> **Rebels Against The Raj.** By Ramachandra Guha. Knopf; 496 pages; $35. William Collins; £25
 > 

1 How do political winds affect the writing of history? In India those in power have long pressed publishers to pay most heed to their favoured historical figures. For much of the past century, as the Congress party dominated public life, writers lavished attention on the independence heroes who were drawn from its ranks, Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru **foremost** among them.

> **foremost** ：最重要的；最著名的
>
> **Jawaharlal Nehru**：印度总理尼赫鲁
>

2 In contrast, figures of similar importance to the independence movement who were (or became) rivals of Congress were given shorter **shrift**. The Bengali **firebrand** Subhas Chandra Bose was not forgotten, but he was far from celebrated in the same fashion as the Congresswallahs. (Admittedly, he had hurt his own reputation by rushing into exile to ally with the Nazis and Japanese during the war.) Another anti-British campaigner, who despised Congress as much as he opposed **imperialists**, was Vinayak Savarkar. He was long **shun**ned by historians, in part because of his close association with a gang of men who murdered Gandhi in 1948.

> **shrift**：忏悔；认罪；临终忏悔
>
> **Short shrift**：忽视
>
> **firebrand**：挑动政治争端者；煽动动乱者
>
> **imperialist**：帝国主义者；皇帝的支持者；帝制拥护者
>
> **shun**：避开；避免；回避
>

3 Of late the winds have shifted in India. Congress now looks flattened as a political force. Strong regional politicians have established rival power bases; nationally it is the Hindu nationalist **Bharatiya Janata Party** (bjp) that **breezes through** one election after another. In turn, different historical characters are attracting sympathetic attention from writers. Bose has been revived as a **pre-eminent figurehead** of **Bengali** regional pride, for example. As for Savarkar: the prime minister Narendra Modi **extol**s him. As the creator of Hindutva (the Hindu-first movement) roughly a century ago, Savakar and his **illiberal** ideas arguably shaped the majoritarian views of modern bjp leaders as much as anyone.

> **Bharatiya Janata Party**：印度人民党
>
> **breeze through**：轻轻松松地干完某事
>
> **pre-eminent** ：杰出的；出类拔萃的；卓越的
>
> **figurehead** ：有名无实的领导人；傀儡
>
> **Ben'gali**：孟加拉人的
>
> **extol**：颂扬；赞扬
>
> **illiberal**：不开明的
>
> **Hindutva**：印度民族主义
>
> **majoritarian**：多数主义的
>
> **as much as anyone**：不亚于任何人
>

4 For a distinguished historian who **champions** the appealing idea of India as tolerant, humane and welcoming to **adherent**s of all religions or none, this is a **dispiriting** moment. Ramachandra Guha has already written several acutely observed books on Gandhi’s life (among other topics). His latest work, “Rebels Against The Raj”, is a study of India in the build-up to its independence, the 75th anniversary of which falls this year. In it, Mr Guha makes clear his distress at India’s souring mood.

> **champion**：拥护
>
> **adherent**：追随者；党羽
>
> **dispiriting**：令人沮丧的
>

5 He warns of the current drift towards national and religious **parochialism**. “The rise of **nativism** and **xenophobia**”, he writes, “has been both immense and intense.” India’s leaders once stood for inclusion, universal rights and liberal democracy, but today’s **leitmotif** is to “proclaim with pride that you are Hindu”. Politicians **crow about** throwing off a millennium of foreign rule (meaning Muslim Mughals, then British imperialists) and India’s growing might, while suggesting they have nothing to learn from the rest of the world.

> **parochialism/ pəˈroʊkiəlɪzəm /** :  n. 偏狭，狭隘；教区制度；乡土观念；眼界狭小
>
> **nativism**： 土生居民保护主
>
> **xenophobia**：排外情绪; 恐外症
>
> **leitmotif**:  n. 主乐调；主题；主旨
>
> **crow about**：吹嘘
>
> **Mughals**：莫卧儿
>
> **might**：力量，with all your might，竭尽全力地
>

6 Mr Guha’s new book challenges such thinking with a reminder of how many outsiders held (and hold) deep affection for India and its democratic cause. He introduces a remarkable **cast of** seven foreign activists who struggled for India’s freedom from the 1910s onwards. They were British, Irish and American, and included political campaigners, journalists, a reformed communist, a social worker and a teacher. All suffered for their principles and were imprisoned by the British.

7 Nor were they alone. Other foreigners, Mr Guha points out, played a big part in India’s drive for independence, including C.F. Andrews, a priest and social reformer who urged Britain to grant India its freedom. But Mr Guha sets aside those he terms “bridge-builders” between Britain and India (among them some who wished for a kindlier form of imperial rule). His interest is in the outright **renegades**, who proved themselves utterly, joyously disloyal to Britain’s imperial project.

> **renegade**：叛徒; 叛逆者; 改变信仰者
>

8 The author is intrigued by the motivation of people who make sacrifices for others in distant places, or for groups distinct from their own, whether socially, racially or economically. He likens his renegades to the thousands of foreign volunteers who fought against fascism in the Spanish civil war of the 1930s. He finds another parallel in individuals who choose to turn against immoral regimes, such as idealistic white South Africans who resisted **apartheid**. At times, he rightly observes, disloyalty is a trait much to be admired.

> **apartheid**：种族隔离（前南非政府推行的政策）
>
> **Rebels with a cause**
>

9 The stories of his seven subjects—four men and three women—are **deftly** inter twined. The most compelling is Annie Besant, who came to India in middle age in 1892, an **orator** already known for campaigning for “home rule” in Ireland. She became a proponent of **theosophy** (an **esoteric** religious movement) and for a while **outdid** Gandhi in the affections of the Indian public as she called for freedom. She pushed for women’s rights, and votes, and helped found Banaras Hindu University, still one of the most prominent in India. Her efforts deeply **unsettled** British rulers who were unsure how to shut her up.

> **Deftly**：熟练地；灵巧地；敏捷地
>
> **orator**：演说家
>
> **theosophy**：通神学
>
> **esoteric** ：深奥难懂的
>
> **outdid**：优于；凌驾；打败
>
> **unsettled**:心绪不宁的
>

10 Meanwhile, Madelaine Slade (pictured), a former concert pianist from Britain’s home counties, devoted her long life to Gandhi, living in **ashrams** and **traipsing** across rural India. She took an Indian name, Mira Behn, and probably had her greatest impact by pleading the cause of Indian independence to the American public and in the White House. The other five include Benjamin Horniman, a battling newspaper editor who promoted a free press both before and after independence, and Samuel Stokes, who campaigned against the use of forced, unpaid labour (a disturbingly common practice both before and under British rule).

> **ashram**：静修处; 印度教苦行僧的住地
>
> **traipse**:漫步
>

11 Mr Guha does not overstate the role of these foreigners. He sums up his group as “active conscience-keepers”, who remained **true to** their rebellious ways even after independence—**readily** criticising their friends, the new rulers of India, just as they had opposed **misrule** by the British. His **account** does not change the broad narrative of how Indians won freedom for themselves. Its real point is as much about the future as the past—an argument for the tolerant, outward-looking country India could once again become. ■

> **True to**：忠于
>
> **misrule**:管治不善；蠹政
>
> **readily**:欣然地；乐意地
>
> **account**：叙述
>
> 偷偷告诉大家，外刊房两周年啦~
>

