---
description: Christopher de Bellaigue’s book reveals the allure and burden of power
---

# D752 In “The Lion House”, Suleiman the Magnificent comes to life
> **Suleiman**: 苏莱曼大帝
 > 

1. Not for the first or last time in history, the master of an authoritarian power straddling Europe and Asia looked west—and was reassured to find his adversaries divided. Squabbles among the rulers of western Christendom, **theological**, commercial and personal, made it easier for Sultan Suleiman to achieve his grand aim.

> 跨；叉开腿(坐着)；叉开腿走；不表明态度
>
> **adversaries** :对手；魔鬼
>
> **Squabble**:争论
>
> **Christendom**: 基督教世界；基督教王国
>
> **theological**: 神学(上)的
>

2.He led his vast, multi-ethnic armies deep into European territory, in 1529 (and again in 1532) stopping only at the gates of Vienna. He had established Islam’s place on the continent. In the five centuries since, the personality and achievements of Suleiman the Magnificent have never ceased to puzzle and fascinate. Christopher de Bellaigue approaches him from an unusual and intriguing angle.

3.Despite his **dazzling** charisma, aspects of Suleiman’s life suggest a vulnerable, even **lamentable** figure: a ruler who tried to be fractionally more **lenient** than his predecessors but was caught up in the **murderous** calculus of palace politics. He loved and trusted two individuals, both of Orthodox Christian background. One was his **erstwhile** servant and **falconer**, Ibrahim, whom Suleiman met when they were both around 20, and who proved to be a master of **statecraft**. The other was his favourite **consort** and wife, Hurrem.

> **dazzling**:耀眼的；眼花缭乱的
>
> **lamentable** :十分令人失望的；令人遗憾的；使人惋惜的
>
> **lenient**:仁慈的
>
> **murderous**:蓄意谋杀的；凶残的；凶恶的
>
> **erstwhile** :以前的；先前的；过去的
>
> **falconer**:（为狩猎活动）养隼者；训练隼者
>
> **statecraft**:治国才能；政务才能
>
> **consort**:（统治者的）配偶
>

4.But this was not a happy **trio**. Hurrem helped persuade Suleiman (perhaps correctly) that Ibrahim was flying too high and could become a rival. One morning in 1536, in the bedroom next to the **sultan**’s, Ibrahim was found **strangled**. (Much later, it seems, Hurrem induced Suleiman to kill his beloved son, born by another woman.) Suleiman’s reign, up to Ibrahim’s death, provides the framework for Mr de Bellaigue’s vivid and **compelling** narrative.

> **trio**:三人小组
>
> **sultan**:苏丹（某些国家穆斯林统治者的称号）
>
> **strangled**:；绞颈；卡住的
>
> **compelling** :引人入胜的；扣人心弦的
>

5.This is a new genre for an author who has written, in a journalistic and scholarly vein, about the contemporary and early-modern histories of Iran, Turkey and the wider Middle East (and has reported for The Economist from that region). He presents his story like a novel, but it is not fiction; every detail has been diligently researched, for example by perusing diaries in difficult Venetian dialect. To learn about Suleiman’s accession ceremony, he studied an artwork by a master miniaturist in the Topkapi Palace Museum.

> **miniaturist**:细密画画家a painter who paints small works of art
>
> 细密画（miniature），是波斯艺术的重要门类，一种精细刻画的小型绘画。主要作书籍的插图和封面、扉页徽章、盒子、镜框等物件上和宝石、象牙首饰上的装饰图案。
>

6.Indeed it might be said that ceremonies in all their variety are Mr de Bellaigue’s favourite thing. Obsessively but **infectiously**, he **relate**s the finer points of political, social and military rituals. Whether he is describing a lavish dinner for Italian merchants on the Bosporus, the **stately** progress of Suleiman’s armies through the **Balkan**s or a mass **circumcision**, he has an eye for the colourful, absurd and ironic.

> **relate**:讲述；叙述
>
> **infectiously** :富有感染力
>
> **stately**：宏大的；壮观的
>
> **Balkan**：巴尔干半岛(山脉)的
>
> **circumcision**：割礼
>

7.Holding up a mirror to Suleiman and his court, the narrative opens in the contrasting, but no less **ritualistic**, world of Venice—a power destined to compete with the Ottomans, but also to interact with them in mutually beneficial ways. As the **epitome** of that **ambivalent** relationship, Mr de Bellaigue introduces Andrea Gritti, who became doge (or ruler) of Venice in 1523. He had spent more than 20 years in the Ottoman capital, first as a merchant, then as a diplomat, then as an **incarcerated espionage** suspect, and finally as the broker of a Venetian-Ottoman peace treaty.

> **ritualistic**：仪式的；老套的
>
> **epitome**：；缩影典型；典范
>
> **ambivalent** ：（忧喜参半、好坏参半等）矛盾情绪的
>
> **incarcerated**：监禁；
>
> **espionage** ：间谍活动
>
> **broker**：协商（协议的细节，尤指在两国间）
>

8.The book describes how one of his sons, Alvise Gritti, settled in what today is **Istanbul** and befriended both Suleiman and Ibrahim. Eventually, in 1534, Alvise was captured and killed during a **shady** military assault on **Transylvania**. Before that, it could be said that a single, sophisticated family enjoyed influence in both great maritime powers.

> **Istanbul** ：伊斯坦布尔
>
> **Transylvania**：特兰西瓦尼亚
>
> **shady** ：鬼祟的；非法的
>

9.By flashing between the Adriatic and the Bosporus, Mr de Bellaigue brings home many such links, comparisons and commonalities. Both of the port cities that he evokes **brim**med with **ostentatious** wealth extracted from distant lands. But for all the cynicism of its governance, Venice was a law-based state where the election of the **doge**, for example, involved elaborate rules. The winner had to pledge respect for the established system.

> **brim with**：洋溢着；充满着
>
> **ostentatious**：摆阔的；铺张的；浮华的
>
> **doge**：ruler
>
> **Bring home**:使(某人)清楚地认识到[痛切地感觉到了](某事)
>

10.The sultan, by contrast, was not subject to any earthly checks or balances. As a representative of God he could make his own laws, and no man-made statute could constrain him. As this book shows, living in the **penumbra** of such supreme power can be **seductive** and **intoxicating**. But the end of the story is often tragic.

> **penumbra**:（黑暗与光明之间的）半影
>
> **seductive**:诱人的；迷人的
>
> **intoxicating**:令人陶醉的
>

