# D741 A strange case of intergenerational memory
> **Nematode**：线虫
 > 
> **progeny**：子孙；幼崽
 > 

1 Charles darwin did not invent the idea of evolution. But he did come up with the currently accepted explanation, natural selection, in which heritable characteristics arise by chance and are retained if competition shows them to be useful. Natural selection’s success overthrew an earlier idea proposed by Jean-Baptiste Lamarck, a French natural historian. Lamarck had suggested that characteristics acquired by experience during an organism’s lifetime might somehow become heritable.

2 Modern genetics has no place for **Lamarckism** as a long-term mechanism, because it would involve writing the recipe for such environmentally induced changes accurately into an organism’s dna. But occasional examples of short-term effects that resemble it do turn up from time to time. They usually involve minor and **reversible** chemical tweaks to the dna in sperm and eggs, or to the proteins in which that dna is packaged into chromosomes. These tweaks, known as **epigenetic** effects, tend to cause general, and not always helpful, responses to events like famine, and persist for only a generation or two. The AAAS meeting heard, however, of an example that has a much more **intriguing** mechanism. It encodes a specific, life-saving behaviour in a relative of dna called rna. And it is passed down even unto the third and fourth generations.

> **Lamarckism**：拉马克学说
>
> **reversible** ：正反两用的；可逆的
>
> **epigenetic**：后成的
>
> 表观遗传效应（epigenetic effect）：由**表观遗传调控所产生的表型效 应则；或泛指所有不改变DNA序列**，而是通过影响基因表达与活 性的各个环节导致细胞与个体表型改变的现象。
>
> **intriguing**：引人入胜的；神秘的
>

3 Coleen Murphy of Princeton University studies C. elegans, a **nematode** worm beloved of geneticists that is, as a consequence, one of the planet’s best understood animals. C. elegans lives in **rotting fruit**, and eats bacteria. Among its favourite prey are bugs of the genus **Pseudomonas**. But **munching** these does not always go well. One species, P. aeruginosa, is a dangerous pathogen, at least when the temperature is above 25°C. Not surprisingly, worms which survive their first encounter with P. aeruginosa in such circumstances are put off by the experience. **Thenceforth** they are repelled by, rather than attracted to, its chemical traces.

> **C. elegans**: 秀丽隐杆线虫
>
> **nematode**：线虫
>
> **rotting**：腐烂的
>
> **Pseudomonas**：假单胞菌属
>
> **P. aeruginosa**：绿脓杆菌
>
> **munch**：用力[大声]地咀嚼
>
> **Thenceforth**：从那时起
>

4 That makes perfect sense. But Dr Murphy, who is interested in the phenomenon of epigenetic transmission, wondered if this aversive behaviour might also be displayed by the offspring of those worms.
It was. And by the offspring of those offspring. And by the offspring of the offspring of those offspring. In fact, it did not disappear until the fifth generation of worms descended from the one that had had the bad experience. By this time the **ambient** temperature might have fallen below 25°C, making P. aeruginosa once again an attractive food source.

> **ambient**：周围环境的
>

5 A lot of molecular-biological manipulation by members of Dr Murphy’s team showed that the switch from attraction to **repulsion** is caused by an increase in the amount of a protein called daf-7 in a pair of nerve cells called asi neurons found near the worm’s mouth. Not only were elevated levels of this protein confined to those worms which were **repell**ed by P. aeruginosa, but they also remained elevated for four further generations, returning to normal, along with the behaviour, in the fifth.

> **repulsion**：斥力；嫌恶感；强烈的反感；憎恶
>
> **repel**：排斥；相斥；击退
>

6 The biochemical **underpinning** of this, it turned out after further rounds of experiments, is an rna molecule, p11, which is produced by P. aeruginosa and taken up by the worms. Experiments showed that after exposure to p11, daf-7 levels in worms’ asi neurons went up, and the worms then avoided P. aeruginosa. Because rna and dna are chemically similar, strands of rna can bind to strands of dna if the compositions of the two are complementary. And that is what is happening here. Part of p11 matches part of a gene called maco-1, that is active in asi neurons. Binding between them turns down the volume on maco-1, which has the effect of turning up the volume on the gene which encodes daf-7 and switching on the **evasive** response.

> **underpinning**：基础
>
> **evasive**：逃避的；回避的
>

7 Somehow, therefore, p11 is being passed from one worm generation to another. And this seems to involve an object called a **retrotransposon**. Retrotransposons are virus-like structures that can copy rna into dna. Dr Murphy’s latest experiments show that worms have one called Cer 1 which does this with p11.

> **retrotransposon**：逆转录转座子
>

8 Cer 1 thus acts as a sort of vehicle, outside the cell nucleus, which carries p11. It is able, in experiments, to pass the rna on to other worms, which then also become P. aeruginosa-averse for four generations. And it does something similar to the germ cells inside its original host. Why the effect persists for four generations and no longer remains unknown. But what this elegant piece of science shows is that a specific, useful acquired characteristic can, indeed, be inherited.

