# D368 Little is known about the effects of puberty blockers
1 Gender **dysphoria**—the miserable feeling of being at odds with one’s sex—is one of the fastest-rising medical **complaints** among children. America had one **paediatric** gender clinic in 2007. It now has at least 50. The sole paediatric gender clinic for England and Wales, known by its acronym, GIDS, has seen referrals rise 30-fold in a decade. A similar pattern is evident across the rich world.

> https://byjus.com/biology/difference-between-adolescence-and-puberty/
>
> **NHS性别认同发展服务**（**GIDS**）是国家操纵的诊所专门从事与儿童工作的性别认同问题，包括性别焦虑症。虽然基于在塔维斯托克与波特曼NHS信托基金会的网站，它是由委托NHS英格兰和来自全国各地的需要请示英国。它是英国唯一的针对18岁以下人群的性别认同诊所，
>
> referral: 转诊量
>
> N-COUNT可数名词You can refer to an illness as a **complaint**, especially if it is not very serious. (尤指不严重的) 疾病
>
> **paediatric**: [儿科] 儿科的；儿科学的
>

2 Many attending such clinics are given **gonadotropin**-releasing hormone (gnrh) agonists, or “**puberty** blocke.rs”. These drugs, licensed to treat cancers of the breast and prostate, endometriosis and “central precocious puberty”—a rare condition in which puberty starts far earlier than normal—are prescribed off-label to stop the signals that stimulate the testicles or ovaries to ramp up sex-hormone production. The idea is to delay puberty, buying time for patients to decide whether to proceed to cross-sex hormones and surgery with the aim of “passing” as adult members of the opposite sex.

> **Puberty** is the stage in someone's life when their body starts to become physically mature. 青春期
>
> 乳腺癌，前列腺癌，子宫内膜异位，和“中枢性性早熟”
>
> off-label: ADJ/ADV(of a prescription drug) relating to use, or being used, in ways for which it has not been approved 未经检验的; 未经检验地
>

3 All drugs offer a mix of harms and benefits. But despite their popularity, the effects of puberty blockers remain unclear. Because they are not licensed for **gender medicine**, drug firms have done no trials. Record-keeping in many clinics is poor. A 2018 review by researchers at the University of Melbourne described the evidence for their use as “**low-quality**”. In December British judges likewise flagged the lack of a “firm evidence base” when ruling that children were unlikely to be able to give meaningful consent to taking them. Britain’s National Health Service recently withdrew a claim, still made elsewhere, that their effects are “fully reversible”.

> low-quality:可 信度低，
>

4 The studies that do exist are at once weak and worrying. The day after the court ruling, gids published a study that found children were happy to receive the drugs. But there was little other evidence of benefit—not even a reduction in gender dysphoria. Two older studies of Dutch patients given puberty blockers in the 1990s found that gender dysphoria eased afterwards. But without a control group, it is impossible to tell how patients would have felt had they not taken the drugs.

5 A 2020 paper analysed responses to an online survey and concluded that people who had taken puberty blockers were less prone to suicidal thoughts. But online surveys capture convenient samples, not representative ones. People may answer repeatedly, or at random. Much of the data appeared to be misreported: many who said they had taken puberty blockers were too old to have plausibly done so.

6 In the absence of direct, robust evidence, researchers can try to **extrapolate** from other findings. **Off-label prescribing** is common in paediatric medicine, because drug firms do not generally like running trials on children. So doctors look for second-hand evidence from elsewhere to guide their decisions. One source is studies that look at how gnrh agonists are used to treat other conditions.

> V-I[正式]不及物动词If you **extrapolate from** known facts, you use them as a basis for general statements about a situation or about what is likely to happen in the future. 推断
>
> **Off**-**label prescribing** is when a physician gives you a drug that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved to treat a condition different than your condition. This practice is legal and common. In fact, one in five **prescriptions** written today are for **off**-**label** use.
>

7 Interrupting normal adolescence is not the same as treating cancer, endometriosis or precocious puberty. Nevertheless, data from these conditions have flagged unpleasant side-effects. Men who take gnrh agonists lose energy and sexual desire. (This is why some countries prescribe them to sex offenders.) Women are thrust into an artificial **menopause**, an experience unpleasant enough that, in endometriosis, drugs are typically prescribed for six months at most. Several legal cases have been brought against drug firms by adults who took puberty blockers for precocious puberty. They allege cognitive deficits, brittle bones and chronic pain in later life, though none has made it to court.

> **Menopause** is the time during which a woman gradually stops menstruating, usually when she is about fifty years old. (女性的) 更年期
>

8 Animal studies suggest such concerns may be worth investigating. One 2017 study looked at sheep, which go through a **developmental spurt** similar to human adolescence. Sheep given puberty-blockers performed worse than controls on a maze-navigation task, suggesting their spatial memory was inferior. A 2020 paper looking at mice found, among other things, that females given puberty blockers were more **timid** in unfamiliar environments, and gave up sooner on a “forced swim” test that is commonly used to assess whether anti-depressants work.

> **Timid** people are shy, nervous, and lack courage or confidence in themselves. 羞怯的
>
> N-COUNT可数名词An **antidepressant** is a drug which is used to treat people who are suffering from depression. 抗抑郁药
>

9 One big worry is that puberty blockers seem to reliably lead to cross-sex hormones, in what doctors call a “**cascade** of interventions”. The best estimate, from studies starting in the 1970s, is that around 80% of gender-dysphoric children who are allowed to express themselves as they wish, but who do not socially transition—change their clothes, pronouns and the like to present as members of the opposite sex—will, as they grow up, become **reconciled** to their biological sex. Yet puberty blockers seem to prevent that reconciliation. In European clinics that report numbers, it happens with just 2-4% of children given the drugs. American clinics rarely publish figures, but **anecdotally** the picture is similar.

> N-COUNT[文学性]可数名词If you refer to a **cascade** **of** something, you mean that there is a large amount of it. 大量
>

10 Such numbers led British judges to rule that the effects of those subsequent treatments should be taken into account when assessing puberty blockers. Besides their intended effects, such as the growth of breasts or facial hair, cross-sex hormones also cause side-effects. One 2018 study concluded that females who take testosterone are more likely to suffer cardiovascular disease, while males who take oestrogen have higher risk of blood clots and strokes. The additional risk grew the longer the patients remained on hormones.

11 Some doctors worry about **osteoporosis**. Bone density rises sharply during puberty, but blockers disrupt that process. If they are followed by cross-sex hormones they are very likely to **impair** fertility, even if hormones are later stopped—though the lack of studies means no one knows how much, says Will Malone, an American endocrinologist and member of the Society for Evidence-Based Gender Medicine, a new group. If the cascade of intervention ends with removal of the testicles or ovaries the result will be sterility.

12 Despite the uncertainties, professional bodies have endorsed the drugs. In a 2018 position paper the American Association of Paediatrics (aap) described “gender-affirmative” care as the only ethical approach. Not everyone is convinced. James Cantor, a Canadian clinical psychologist, published a paper accusing the aap of **misstating** the contents of its **citations**, which “repeatedly said the very opposite of what the aap attributed to them”. (Asked for comment, the aap restated its position.) Marcus Evans, a psychoanalyst, resigned from the board that oversees gids over worries about “experimental” treatments.

> N-COUNT可数名词A **position paper** is a detailed report that usually explains or recommends a particular course of action. 意见书; 建议书
>

13 The best way to settle such disputes is the same as in any other part of medicine: a big, well-run clinical trial. So far, despite soaring caseloads, and puberty blockers having been prescribed for decades, no one is planning to conduct one.

> N-COUNT[oft with poss]可数名词The **caseload** of someone such as a doctor, social worker, or lawyer is the number of cases that they have to deal with. (医生、社工或律师等需要处理的)案例数量
>

