# D356 Why the WallStreetBets crowd are able to profit from predatory trading
> Predatory Trading猎物算法交易，也有翻译为捕食交易，掠夺者交易。
 > 
> 一些HFT公司通过人为制造的价格来诱使机构投资者提高买入价格或降低卖出价格，从而锁定交易利润。
 > 
> 举个栗子：
 > 
> 假设机构投资者的心理成交价格在30～30.05 美元之间。猎物算法交易商用Pinging来寻找其他投资者潜在的连续算法订单。
 > 
> 在计算机确认价格为30 美元的算法报单的存在后；
 > 
> 猎物算法交易程序即发起攻击：报出价格为30.01 美元的买单，从而迫使机构投资者迅速将后续买单价格调高至30.01 美元；
 > 
> 然后，猎物算法交易商进一步将价格推高至30.02 美元，诱使机构投资者继续追逐。
 > 
> 以此类推，猎物算法交易商在瞬间将价格推至机构投资者所能接受的价格上限30.05 美元，并在此价格将股票卖给该机构投资者。
 > 
> 猎物算法交易商知道30.05 美元的人为价格一般难以维持，从而在价格降低时进行补仓赚取利润。
 > 
> Textbooks say it can’t happen. But there are times when front-running distressed traders pays off
 > 

1“There are no loyalties on Wall Street. When you smell blood in the water, you become a shark.” The sentiment—or lack of it—would not look **out of place** on r/wallstreetbets, the **locus** for a new breed of stockmarket **hammerheads**, which has helped push up the share prices of tech darlings and bombed-out companies to nosebleed levels, crippling professional short-sellers in the process. But the quote comes from a boomer, not a millennial: “Confessions of a Wall Street Addict”, by Jim Cramer, a trader-cum-tv-star. He is describing the **remorseless** logic of predatory trading.

> **out of place**：不合适的；不相称的；不在适当的位置
>
> The **locus of** something is the place where it happens or the most important area or point with which it is associated. 发生地; 相关点
>
> The **hammerhead** sharks are a group of sharks that form the family Sphyrnidae, so named for the unusual and distinctive structure of their heads, 双头鲨
>
> Someone who is **remorseless** is prepared to be cruel to other people and feels no pity for them. 冷酷无情的
>

2 It is something that is discovered anew by each generation of traders—the dark art of **picking off** investors who are in distress, for profit. Every big market meltdown is made worse by it. Every melt-up—including the current one—makes prey of those who are brave enough to sell it short. Those schooled in the idea of efficient capital markets will be puzzled by the latest goings-on. The textbooks say this sort of thing cannot happen. They assume there is abundant capital that can be put to work to correct prices that have got **out of whack**.

> **pick off** someone/something definition: to shoot a person or animal chosen out of a group, esp. from a distance
>
> **out of whack**: 不正常；不一致；（美口）紊乱
>

3 But in the real world, and in the right conditions, predatory trading is a profitable strategy. Prices can be pushed to extremes before they are pulled back to sensible levels. All it takes are illiquid markets, traders that are bleeding and other traders who can smell the blood.

4 To understand how this works, picture a world in which there are two types of investor—fast and slow. The slow-money investors are pension funds. They eschew short-term trading. When they enter the market it is in a measured way, to buy and sell when share prices look unduly cheap or dear. The fast-money crowd are hedge funds, which are happy to trade every day. In this world there are only two hedge funds. Each has ten shares in a company. Each share has an expected value of $150 in the long run, but in the short run can trade at any price.

5 Say the stock falls to $100 a share—low enough to force one of the hedge funds to rush to sell its entire holding, perhaps because its investors panic. The trouble is the market for the stock is not very liquid. The slow-money crowd will buy two shares per day but the price must get cheaper by $2 a day to induce them to trade. In a world without predatory traders, the distressed hedge fund manages to sell its stock over five days, with the last share going for $90.
But the other hedge fund knows the prey is wounded. So it becomes a predator. It joins in the selling. With only a few buyers, it now takes the distressed seller ten days, rather than five, to get rid of its shares. The final one is sold for $80. The predator is then free to buy back shares at a lower price than he sold them for. He buys the shares as fast as he can, over five days, driving the price to $90.

6 This example is adapted from the model in “Predatory Trading”, a paper by Markus Brunnermeier and Lasse Pedersen published in 2005 in the Journal of Finance. The model elegantly highlights the key features of financial shark attack. Markets must be illiquid (ie, large trades can move prices in the short run). Traders must have limited capacity, meaning they cannot sustain losses beyond a certain point—for regulatory reasons, because of redemptions by investors or because of the psychological pain.

7 The authors draw out some implications. The more illiquid the market, the more scope for predators to profit: it takes longer for the prey to escape their positions, so the price falls by more. The quicker the distressed trader sells, the fewer losses it makes. Any delay allows the predator to trade ahead of (front-run) the prey. The more predators there are, the less profitable predation is.

8 How does the WallStreetBets episode fit this template? The predators are **acting in concert**, so their strategy may be more effective. Better still, the prey are short-sellers, who bet on stocks falling. They are especially vulnerable: the more the price rises, the more they lose. Their potential losses are unlimited. And their positions are often common knowledge.
**Acting in concert** is a slang term for when parties undertake identical investment actions to achieve the same goal.

9 This is why a lot of hedge funds put their trades through several brokers in an attempt to mask them. Even so, the incentive for brokers to front-run a struggling customer is hard to resist—and not always resisted, as Mr Cramer recounts in his book. “There was something about a dying client that sent these brokers to go to the **untapped** pay phone downstairs—all brokerage calls are recorded—and tell their buddies.” There really are no loyalties on Wall Street.
**tap** : connect a device to (a telephone) so that conversation can be listened to secretly.

