# D390 Mourid Barghouti died on February 14th
1 Gazing in the mirror, Mourid Barghouti had no problem with himself. He looked all right, and some girls might even find his grey hair attractive. His **spectacles** were well-made, his temperature precisely 37 degrees. His shirt was ironed, and his shoes did not hurt. There were no cuffs on his wrists, and he had not been fired. He kept his id papers on him, even at the swimming pool. He had grown used to the presence in his land of the Khaki, the Israeli soldiers of occupation. If his dreams had taken the night train, and the train had crashed with none of them surviving, there was still life after death. But was there life before death?

> N-PLURAL[老式][also 'a pair of' N]复数型名词Glasses are sometimes referred to as **spectacles**. 眼镜
>
> 第一个death是指dreams的， 第二个death 是指人肉体上的。
>
> 第一个 life 指dreams的
>
> 第二个life是讲的mourid的生活
>

2 His own was in fragments. Ever since the Arab-Israeli war of 1967 had caught him in Cairo, where he was at the university, he had been unable to go back to Ramallah, his home town. Ramallah was now in the occupied West Bank, and Palestine no longer existed. He belonged nowhere. Over the next 30 years, shuttling between Kuwait, Beirut, Jordan, Cairo again, and Budapest, deported or blacklisted as the politics of the region **ebbed and flowed**, he lived in 46 houses or furnished apartments. He did not own the coffee pots there, or the cups. The bed linen was someone else’s choice. He chose the ceramic pots for his house plants, arranged them and washed their leaves carefully with beer; then he left. He started libraries, since words were his **metier**, but had to give the books away, keeping only his dictionaries. He became so wary of **attachment to** a place that when, from 1994, he spent a decent spell in Cairo his apartment was kept almost bare, ready to pack up.

> N-VAR有变体名词If you have an **attachment** **to** someone or something, you are fond of them or loyal to them. 爱慕; 忠诚
>

3 It was not homesickness he felt, as he shifted his bags and wrote his poems, producing a dozen volumes by the end. Nostalgia was lazy, futile. What he felt was that his will had been broken and replaced by simple anger. And the question was how to express it, as a poet. He did not want to write in the classical Arab style; he had come to Cairo deliberately to keep off the mapped road. Nor did he want to shout for intifada; his ways were quieter. For a while, in Cairo and Beirut, he worked for Radio Palestine, but the **bombast** and sloganeering of politics repelled him. As a lover of freedom, he could not join a party or **pledge allegiance** to anyone: all you need to make a tyrant, he wrote, “is a single bend of the knee”. He hated Israel, the occupier, who had taken what was his and covered it with smart white settlements; but he also **loathed** the Palestinian parties, Fatah, riddled with corruption, and Hamas, naively peddling myths of power. In 1999, working briefly for the Palestinian Authority in Ramallah, he tried to **blow the whistle** on the siphoning-away of funds for a World Bank project. He resigned when he made no impression.

> N名词the Palestinian uprising against Israel in the West Bank and Gaza Strip that started at the end of 1987 1987年底爆发的以色列占领区的巴勒斯坦人暴动
>
> PHRASE习语If someone or something **makes an impression**, they have a strong effect on people or a situation. 造成强烈影响
>

4 His poems had to speak instead. He wrote them as a deliberate contrast to the frothing politicians, simple, concrete, cooled down. He kept his gaze on everyday things, ordinary pleasures and troubles: leading the reader to a window, leaving him to look out. He did not write about blood, rifles, the nation, the word “Palestine”. That pain would appear, he felt, even when he described a forest or a flower—or a small tear in a shirt, which a jailer might have made. As for his own **uprooting**, “I rubbed the leaf of an orange in my hands/As I had been told to do/So that I could smell its scent/but before my hand could reach my nose/I had lost my home and become a refugee.”

5 He agonised about returning. In a sense, displacement was not unusual for him; it was the natural condition of a poet, the outsider, critically observing the world and distanced from its norms. He could still work, travelling and lecturing as a mouthpiece for his unseen, unregarded people. Displacement just added another, arbitrary, layer. And whatever else he had lost, he had kept his Palestinian voice: “The fish/even in the fisherman’s net/ Still carries/The smell of the sea.”

6 What would it mean, anyway, if he returned? Could he go back to who he was, where he was? Both he and the place would be irrevocably changed. He and his wife Radwa, an Egyptian novelist who also put his poems expertly into English, were separated by his exile for 17 years; when they reunited, the two households took a long time to readjust. Besides, as a poet, place was not essential. He could work in time instead, trying to **dwell in** the present and the future rather than the past. For it was patches of time—a day of gathering **figs** from the courtyard tree, an afternoon drinking milkshakes in Rukab’s garden café, the morning ritual of overhearing his grandmother’s whispered prayers—that he really wanted to retrieve, rather than place.

7 In 1996, after the Oslo peace accords (a compromise he detested) he returned at last to Ramallah. He tried to coax joy out of himself, as hens were coaxed with barley, but it was hard. Was he returning as a guest, a citizen, or a refugee? In the city, he got lost. On the drive north from the border checkpoints the land was bare and chalky; he had remembered it leafed with green “in twenty languages of beauty”. Was his memory playing him false? At his birth-village, Deir Ghassanah, where he gave a reading, the villagers mobbed him, but they did not know him. In the main square, **daubed** with Hamas slogans, he seemed to see the past squatting in the sun, like a dog forgotten by its owners. He wanted to pick it up and urge it towards the future.

> V-T[usu passive]及物动词If you say that someone **is being mobbed** **by** a crowd of people, you mean that the people are trying to talk to them or get near them in an enthusiastic or threatening way. 成群围住
>

8 The last place he lived in was Amman, Jordan’s capital, where he was buried. He was still angry, with a sort of numb despair, at the condition of Palestinians, the moral **turpitude** of the Palestinian Authority and Israel’s boot on the neck, controlling everything. He accepted that he would always be in a state of uprootedness. But there was one sure place he belonged, where he could retreat from ugliness, or abuse, or tedious waiting at some checkpoint: his inner space. There he reassured himself that quiet simplicity could be **eloquent**. Even silence could.

> After the death of the horseman
>
> The homeward-bound horse
>
> Without saying anything
>


