# DAY 176 Why TV shows made in China’s Hunan province are so popular
1 Among this summer’s television hits in China has been “Sisters Who Make Waves”. The show involves 30 female celebrities over the age of 30 competing for a spot in a five-member band. Viewers watch them train, perform and live together (some of the contestants are pictured). Five hundred women, picked at random, get to vote for their favourite. Within three days of its airing in June, over 300m had watched the first episode on Mango tv, a streaming app owned by the state television network of Hunan, a central province. Social-media sites brim with praise from young feminists for these somewhat older role models: at last, a break from the devoted mothers and **dewy-faced ingénues** beloved of official broadcasters.

2 Making waves is what Hunan Broadcasting System (hbs) does best. It is the most-watched television network after China Central Television (cctv), the state broadcaster—and occasionally surpasses its ratings. That is striking for an outfit run by the government of a province that is better known as China’s largest producer of rice and the birthplace of Mao Zedong—“red tourism” centred on Mao’s formative haunts draws devotees of the chairman from around the country.

3 But Changsha, the provincial capital, has become a **font** of China’s popular culture. It is home to over 12,000 companies involved in creating it. They employ one in eight of the city’s workers. By one official calculation, no other sector contributes more to Changsha’s wealth. In 2017 (the most recent year for which figures are available) creative and cultural industries generated 9% of the city’s gdp—a proportion twice as high as their contribution to national output. At their heart in Hunan is a broadcaster with a **knack** for **cranking out** programmes that are watched throughout China. In 2018 hbs’s affiliates produced six of China’s best-liked costume dramas and eight of its most popular songs.

4 Changsha’s standing has turned its **biennial** “Golden Eagle” awards into one of China’s three most prestigious prize-giving ceremonies for tv stars. By gdp per person, Hunan ranks 16th among China’s 31 provincial-level regions. But its 67m people are the country’s fifth-biggest spenders on culture, education and entertainment.

5 Hunan’s journey to national pop-culture prominence began in the 1990s when the provincial broadcasting authorities created a satellite tv station with licence to try something new. It produced lively news reports, a celebrity-led variety show called “Happy Camp” and even a matchmaking programme. By 2000 hotels in Beijing were luring guests with **placards** boasting, “We have Hunan Satellite tv”, the New York Times observed at the time.

6 Much of that early success was the work of a Hunanese **bureaucrat**, Wei Wenbin. When he took over as director of the Hunan Radio and Television Department, Mr Wei **read up** about America’s entertainment industry. On land once used by a state-run rose farm, he built a vast park for television and film production and moved the new satellite tv station there. The area, Malanshan, has since grown into a cultural powerhouse, drawing media giants such as iQiyi and Tencent. In 2017 eight of the ten most-streamed variety shows on the Chinese internet were **hatched** there.

7 Hunan tv was the first network in China to try broadcasting for profit. That led it to focus on entertainment, a priority which helped it avoid political mistakes, as Wu Changchang of East China Normal University has noted. According to Mr Wu, Hunan tv struck a delicate balance between winning the love of viewers and approval from the Communist Party, which is a “prerequisite” of commercial success in China.

8 The government has occasionally **winced**. In 2011 it took “Happy Girls”, a fantastically popular singing contest, off air. The official explanation was that the show was too **racy** for its prime-time slot, but many wondered whether its huge excitable fan base worried the party. In 2004 a forerunner of the show, “Super Girls”, had let spectators vote for contestants by text message—a first in China. That smacked too much of democracy for the government. After a few years Hunan tv limited voting mainly to a studio audience. These days the network strives even harder to please the party. In 2017 it launched a series about ideology called “Socialism is Kind of Cool”. It included a quiz show on the life and works of Xi Jinping, China’s leader.

9 Yet Hunan’s stations still have “political space to explore new things”, in the view of a manager at Mango tv. The government wants to get “closer to its audience”, he says, in particular to the young who spend hours **glued** to their smartphones. Internet broadcasters such as Mango tv, with 18m subscribers, help it to do so.

10 Hunan tv’s ability to experiment matters for the development of Chinese broadcasting. Li Shuwan, a former presenter at the station, says the province is a training ground for much of the country’s television talent. Industry insiders call Changsha the “West Point” of China’s cultural-entertainment industry, a reference to the American army’s elite academy.

11 It is just as competitive. In 2013 Ms Li was one of only two students from Hunan University who were admitted to Hunan tv’s graduate programme. This year some 30,000 people applied for 100 spots on Mango tv’s trainee scheme. Mango tv encourages young recruits to speak up and suggest fresh ideas. They can receive funding to implement their proposals.

12 Yang Tianhao, a co-founder of Erka Media, which manages 600 social-media influencers from its offices in China (including Changsha) and Los Angeles, says that young people in Hunan’s capital are risk-takers, with parents who are more willing to let their children try their luck in a **fickle** industry than counterparts in richer Chinese cities. Well before Hunan’s “Sisters” filled smartphone screens, a Hunanese woman was making them: Zhou Qunfei, the founder of Lens Technology. Born to a poor, rural family, she was named the world’s richest self-made woman in 2018.

13 People in China like to point to character traits which they believe are shared by natives of a particular province. The executive at Mango tv detects “a cultural gene to break the rules” among Hunanese. For evidence, he points to Mao and Liu Shaoqi, who was born in Changsha and served as state president under Mao. Hunan’s broadcasters certainly have an interest in cultivating the stereotype: an **edgy** feel is crucial to the success of their brand.

