---
description: A proposed California law would make it easier to hunt feral swine, the voracious “super invaders” that are the bane of some East Bay suburbs.
---

# D733 The Rampaging Pigs of the San Francisco Bay Area
> **ram'paging**：横冲直撞
 > 
> **voracious**: 贪吃的；贪婪的
 > 
> **feral**: 野生的
 > 
> **bane**：祸害
 > 
> Feral hogs huddled together in a trap after munching on corn that was used to bait them into the enclosure.
 > 

1 MORAGA, Calif. — The residents of the San Francisco Bay Area **go to great lengths** to accommodate the wealth of wildlife around them.
A sign at a playground in Moraga, a 35-minute drive from San Francisco, advises parents that rattlesnakes are “important members of the natural community” and to give the snakes “respect.”
Across the Bay in the San Francisco suburb of Burlingame, an animal shelter has rescued a family of **skunks** from a construction hole, a **chameleon** from power lines and **nursed back to health** 100 baby squirrels that **tumbled** out of their nests after their trees got trimmed.

> **skunk**：臭鼬
>
> **chameleon**：变色龙
>
> **tumble**：摔倒
>

2 With the exception of the occasional aggressive **coyote**, the animals that roam the hills and **gullies** of the Bay Area — turkeys, mountain lions, deer, **bobcat**s, foxes and the rest of a **veritable** Noah’s Ark — find themselves on somewhat **laissez-faire** terms with the humans around them.
Not so for the rampaging feral pigs. They are tearing up lawns, ripping through golf course **fairways**, threatening the drinking water and disturbing the harvests at Napa vineyards. Many Californians want them dead.
“They are a **pest** to just about everybody and everything,” said Eric Sklar, a member of the California Fish and Game Commission who strongly supported a bill introduced last month in the State Legislature that would make it easier for hunters to kill feral pigs. “They’re very, very destructive.”

> **coyote**：丛林狼；土狼
>
> **bobcat**：山猫；美洲野猫
>
> **gully**：沟
>
> **laissez-faire**：自由放任的
>
> **fairway**： (高尔夫球场开球区及果岭间的)球道
>
> **veritable** ：十足的；名副其实的；不折不扣的
>
> **pest** ：害虫；害兽；害鸟；讨厌的人（或物）
>

3 For decades, feral swine, armed with their knife-sharp **tusk**s that protrude from **snouty** mouths, have torn up fields of corn, peanut and cotton in wide swaths of Texas and the South, causing what the U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates is $2.5 billion in damage every year.
A military fighter jet was wrecked several decades ago after a collision with two wild pigs on a runway in Florida. Weighing hundreds of pounds, they can be extremely dangerous and in rare cases have attacked and killed humans.

> **tusk**：獠牙；象牙
>
> **snouty**：形状像鼻子的（尤指像猪鼻）；有吻状突出物的
>

4 Now, in what one federal official called a “feral swine bomb,” the pigs are threatening states north and west. Some progress has been made: New York, New Jersey and Maine have eliminated their feral pig populations, according to Michael Marlow, the acting program manager of the federal government’s National Feral Swine Damage Management Program. But at least 30 states still have wild pig populations, he said.
In California, 56 of the state’s 58 counties have wild pigs. The swine are inflicting a mounting **economic toll** in Lafayette, a suburb in the East Bay, where the pig invasion seems most acute. Before the pandemic the city **shelled out** $110,000 when pigs, rooting for **grub**s, **churn**ed soccer and baseball fields like a rototiller. The Park and Recreation Department installed fences around the fields and keeps a trapper on contract to capture and kill the pigs. Recently neighbors have been waking up to find their lawns churned into **clumpy heaps of sod** and dirt.

> **grub**：n.食物 v.翻找；搜寻；挖掘寻找
>
> **shell out**：付 (一大笔钱)
>
> **economic toll**：经济损失、经济后果
>
> **churn**:剧烈搅动；（使）猛烈翻腾
>
> **rototiller**：旋转式耕耘机；旋转碎土器
>
> **heaps of**：大量、许多
>
> **clumpy**：成块的
>
> **sod**：草皮
>

5 The head of the department, Jonathan Katayanagi, said hikers have reported a few **close calls** with wild pigs, usually when off-leash dogs have chased after them. If confronted by angry hogs, people should stand on top of a car or **shimmy** up a tree, he recommends. “Pigs can’t climb,” he said.
Nearby, and more potentially serious, are the hundreds of pigs that have invaded the **creek** beds that feed into the San Leandro reservoir, which at certain times provides drinking water for Oakland, Piedmont, Alameda, Hayward and other East Bay cities.
Swine can harbor dozens of diseases including E. coli, leptospirosis, giardia, toxoplasmosis and salmonella. Officials are concerned that the water supplies could become contaminated.

> **close calls**：侥幸脱险
>
> **shimmy up**: 爬上climb quickly up or down by gripping with one's arms and legs.
>
> **creek**：小溪
>
> **leptospirosis**：钩端螺旋体病
>
> **giardia**：贾第鞭毛虫
>
> **toxoplasmosis**：弓形体病，弓浆虫病
>
> **salmonella**：沙门氏菌感染; 沙门氏菌
>


6 Andrea Pook, a spokeswoman for the East Bay Municipal Utility District, which manages the water system, said its processes “filter and **disinfect** every drop.”
But not all **pathogens** can be taken out in filtration, said Bert Mulchaey, the supervising biologist for the utility.
“We don’t allow people to have direct body contact with the reservoir,” Mr. Mulchaey said. “We definitely don’t want pigs to be **wallowing** around in it.”
The utility district spends $50,000 a year trapping pigs, which are killed with a **firearm**. But they keep coming, and in greater numbers. The district on average captures and kills 60 to 70 pigs a year. Last year it **cull**ed a record 226 pigs, and dozens have been killed in the past two weeks.
Municipal Utility District (MUD): is one of several types of special districts that function as independent, limited government

> **disinfect**: 给…消毒
>
> **pathogen**：病原体
>
> **wallow**：沉溺
>
> **firearm**：（便携式的）枪
>
> **cull**：宰杀 (病弱动物以减少其数目)
>

7 In addition to potentially contaminating the water, the pigs, which are not native to North America, are robbing native wildlife of **acorn**s and other **staple**s.
The Agriculture Department estimates there are six million feral pigs in the United States. They are often hybrids of domestic pigs brought by European explorers five centuries ago and Eurasian or Russian **wild boar** imported in the 1900s for sport hunting.
“The combination made it a super invader,” said Mr. Marlow of the National Feral Swine Damage Management Program.
Fierce, **prolific** and highly adaptable, the hybrid swine, like their domesticated cousins, can run into the hundreds of pounds, including the 800-pound “Hogzilla” shot by a Georgia hunter in 2004.

> **acorn**：橡实,橡子
>
> **staple**：主食
>
> **wild boar**：野猪
>
> **prolific**：多产的；创作丰富的；丰硕的；多育的
>
> The pigs use their tusks and snouts to destroy yards, parks and golf courses.
>

8 The California legislation introduced on Jan. 19 by Bill Dodd, a state senator, would remove a requirement that hunters buy a $25 “tag,” the legal right to hunt one pig.
“All year long you will be able to hunt as many pigs as you want,” said Mr. Sklar, the Fish and Game commissioner. Some experts believe that the swine, smart and somewhat **nomadic**, will move to areas where hunting is not allowed.
In Lafayette the job of culling the swine falls to Chris Davies, a licensed trapper with a **vise-grip** handshake whose family has lived and hunted in the area since the 1880s. Mr. Davies’s father is a former hunting guide and tells the story of a fellow guide being **gore**d to death by a feral pig in the 1970s.

> **nomadic**：游牧的；流浪的
>
> **Game**：狩猎； 猎物；野禽
>
> **vise-grip**：大力钳、虎钳夹口
>
> **gore**:（用角或长牙）顶伤
>

9 “They’re super aggressive and pretty mean-natured,” Mr. Davies said of the pigs he traps. “I never met one that liked me.”
He has devised a corn-based bait, which he tosses into a sturdy metal-fenced **corral** equipped with cameras, a motion detector and a cellular connection. When the pigs enter the corral, almost always in the dead of night, Mr. Davies is alerted on his phone. He watches and closes the enclosure’s gate remotely once the whole group, or **sounder**, is inside.
Then he and his wife, Annie, carry their two sleeping children into the back of their pickup truck. They drive through the darkened suburban streets to the enclosure and shoot the pigs. “They go down like a sack of potatoes,” he said.

> **corral/ kəˈræl / **: 围栏
>
> **sounder**: a herd of wild swine（eg.he spied **a sounder of pigs** trotting through the garden"）
>

10 Among animal rights and conservation groups, Wayne Hsiung, the co-founder of Direct Action Everywhere, which describes itself as fiercely nonviolent, said his group was “very much opposed” to the culling of pigs, which he compared to killing dogs and cats.
But more typical is the **nuanced** view of Brendan Cummings, conservation director at the Center for Biological Diversity, an organization that focuses on the protection of wildlife and endangered species.
“We are talking about individual living animals that we should treat as ethically as possible,” Mr. Cummings said. **That said,** Mr. Cummings, who has spent a career protecting endangered wildlife, once killed a wild pig.

> **nuanced**: 有细微差别的
>
> That said:即便如此
>

11 The only times he has gone hunting was for wild swine, he said, partly because the pigs were killing the purple amole, an endangered purple flower that grows in central California.
“I would prefer a California where we had no wild pigs,” he said, adding that reintroducing jaguars into California could help reduce wild pig populations.
In the Bay Area, where residents are more likely to be showing off thousand-dollar mountain bikes than their latest hunting rifle, Mr. Davies, the pig trapper, realizes that some residents are put off by his profession.

> **amole/ əˈmoli /**： 皂用植物
>
> **put off**：使反感; 使对…失去兴趣
>
> Chris Davies pours bait in an area where he is trying to lure the pigs and will set up a trap.
>

12 “I guess there are a lot of people who think, ‘That guy is a psychopath, he likes killing pigs,’” Mr. Davies said. “I don’t enjoy killing them. But they are terrible animals.”
Mr. Davies distributes the dead hogs to local residents who carve them into pork chops and sausage.
Jenni Smith, the assistant pasture manager at the Moraga Horsemen’s Association, a local horse club, said she was grateful that the pigs were being trapped. Over the past year the swine tore up the horse **paddock**.
“They’re pretty destructive,” she said.
But Ms. Smith is not so sure about eating the culled pigs.
“Honestly,” she said, “if somebody said to me, ‘Would you like a pig carcass?’ I’d be like, ‘What? No, I’ll go to Safeway, thanks.’”

> **paddock**： (放牧马匹的) 小围场
>
> **Chosen By** **Natalie With ♡**
>


---

