---
description: More American clinics are offering ketamine to treat depression. Is this good?
---

# D800 Special K
1.SAT NEXT to a nursery on an industrial estate in Naperville, a suburban city on the outskirts of Chicago, the Ketamine Wellness Centres (kwc) clinic does not look like anything revolutionary. Inside, a television plays videos of landscapes with calming music; tubs of sweets sit on a coffee table. The clinic is one of several in the region, and of over 100 across America, where patients are injected with ketamine to treat persistent pain or depression.

> **ketamine**：氯胺酮
>

2.Interest is rising in the idea that ketamine, typically used as an anaesthetic (or as an illegal party drug), can help provide a lasting cure where traditional treatments, such as **antidepressant** drugs, have failed. psych Global, a provider of information on **psychedelic** health care, estimates that the revenue for American clinics could be over $3bn between 2023 and 2029. Critics, though, worry that the drug can lead to dependency and that not enough is known about its long­term safety.

> **antidepressant** ：抗抑郁药
>
> **psychedelic**：引起幻觉的；幻觉剂
>

3.It is more than 20 years since studies first suggested that ketamine was an effective, rapidly acting antidepressant—**albeit** one whose impact lasts for only days and weeks. Its take­up has been limited because it has not been approved for use specifically as an antidepressant. That deters doctors, patients and those who pay for medicines. It is also unlikely to gain such regulatory approval, which would require a pharmaceutical firm to invest in a drug that is now a cheap generic that anyone can make. Still, **off-­label** prescriptions are possible—and they are on the rise.

> **albeit**: 尽管；虽然
>
> **off-­label**：标签以外；适应症外使用
>
> using or involving the use of a prescription drug to treat a condition for which the drug has not been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
>

4.In kwc’s treatment rooms, people spend between two and four hours experiencing what Kevin Nicholson, the founder and chief executive of the firm, calls a mildly  “**floaty**” and “dreamlike” high high, under the close watch of a nurse or **paramedic**. Although there may be less clinical evidence for ketamine than for traditional antidepressants, its ability to act quickly to relieve depression is an enormous advantage. It stands in **stark contrast** to anti-depressants that can take weeks or months to have an effect—if they work at all. For patients who have failed to respond to anti-depressants, and for those who may be suicidal, ketamine is an attractive option.

> **floaty**：轻的；漂浮感
>
> **stark contrast** ：强烈对比
>
> **paramedic**：护理人员
>
> **Quicker but potentially** **quackier  **
>

5.Some of kwc’s patients struggled for a decade, though a growing number are coming a year or two after their first diagnosis. At the Naperville clinic, to get treatment for depression patients must first go through a psychological evaluation, usually over a video call. They must also have been experiencing symptoms that have not lifted after the use of anti-depressant medications and lifestyle changes.

> **quacky**：骗人的 = fraudulent
>
> **quack**：庸医
>

6.Once accepted, patients have four to six injections over two weeks, then more as needed with widening spaces between. Each one costs $449. Most medical insurance does not cover the actual injections yet, says Mr Nicholson, though it may cover the related assessment and therapy. And a few insurers, including the federal  VA, which provides health insurance to former soldiers, now pay for the injections too.

7.In addition to depression, there is growing evidence that ketamine may be effective in treating several other mental health conditions, such as post­raumatic stress disorder, chronic pain and alcoholism. But it can also cause adverse reactions, ranging from dizziness, nausea and poor coordination to **hallucination**s and **paranoia**. Delivery of the drug, therefore, needs to be supervised in a safe environment such as that provided by kwc. There is also the thorny, unanswered question of whether it has a long­term **downside**.

> **hallucination**：幻觉
>
> **paranoia**：妄想症；偏执狂
>
> **downside**：负面；消极面
>

8.Providing ketamine to those who may have previously struggled with addiction to **opioid**s, alcohol or other drugs may seem risky. But the treatment does not seem likely to appeal to people who just want to get high. The dose given is much lower than recreational users of ketamine typically take, and far costlier. (A gram of street ketamine costs around $100 in the United States; the dose used by kwc is rarely more than 100th of that.) A suburban of­fice in which users are hooked up to cardiac and blood­pressure monitors is also not exactly a party space. After the session is over, patients have to be driven home by a friend or relative.

> **opioid**：阿片类物质
>

9.Plenty of other firms use the drug as an **adjunct** to psychiatry. While the exact mechanism by which ketamine works is not entirely clear, it is known to increase neuroplasticity and stimulate the growth of new **synapse**s. By combining the ketamine experience with psychiatric support, the idea is it helps the patient learn new ways of thinking during a window of **neuroplasticity** opened by the drug.

> **adjunct** ：附属的
>
> **synapse**：突触
>
> **neuroplasticity**:神经塑性；神经重构
>

10.Many of these new clinics also have a **weather eye** to rapid shifts in the science, and cultural acceptability, of using **psilocybin** and **mdma**, two **psychedelic** drugs, for many of the same mental­health conditions. The path to such treatments is trickier: both these drugs are illegal in most of the country. But ketamine clinics provide the ideal setting for delivering future substances, if and when their time arrives.

> **weather eye**:留神;警惕
>
> **psilocybin**:裸头草碱
>
> **mdma**: 亚甲二氧基甲基苯丙胺
>
> **psychedelic**:幻觉剂
>

11.Without approval from a regulator, however, ketamine will remain in a medical **no­man’s­land**. In 2016 the Louisiana State Board of Medical Examiners advised doctors against its use in mental­health conditions, warning that doing so might be deemed “unprofessional conduct”. Many doctors who deal with addiction are still reluctant to recommend it, admits Mr Nicholson: “It’s new and different, so it scares them.”

> **no­man’s­land**：无人地带；无人之境
>

12.Others are too keen. As interest grows, without better oversight of new clinics there is a risk that vulnerable people may be exploited by **unscrupulou**s actors. And a boom in at­-home use through telemedicine, spurred by the pandemic, is taking ketamine into **uncharted** territory.

> **unscrupulous**:不道德的;不择手段的
>
> **uncharted**:人迹罕至的；未知的
>

