---
description: The master of making, rolling and smoking it died on July 18th, aged 64
---

# D539 Obituary: Frenchy Cannoli, who treated hashish like fine wine
> **obituary**：讣文
 > 
> **hashish**：大麻麻醉剂 [老式]
 > 

1 Many, many times in the early 1980s, in the Parvati Valley in the **foothills** of the Himalayas, a young man wandered slowly through a **thicket** of wild **cannabis** plants. As he went he removed the **fan leaves** from each plant and caressed the small green flowers, the **resin glands**. On his palm they left a thin layer, clear at first, then thickening and darkening until he could press the sticky brown mass with his thumb, and **snap it off**. He did not hurry. This was a communion between man and plant, a divine thing. The **terpenes** the flowers released were so intense that they almost overwhelmed him; his body seemed to float in the very essence of the valley. He could well believe that cannabis was born in a drop of the **elixir** of life, shaken down when the gods and the demons were struggling to create it.

> **foothill**：山麓小丘
>
> **thicket**：小树丛; 灌木丛
>
> **cannabis**：大麻
>
> **Fan leaves** are the large, primary leaves on the cannabis plant
>
> **resin gland**：树脂腺 Glands on a cannabis plant that produce oils.
>
> **snap off**：突然折断
>
> **terpene/ˈtɜːpiːn/**： 萜[tiē]烯
>
> **elixir**：灵丹妙药
>

2 So the locals said. But one look at this young man—his **gangliness**, and especially the whiteness of his skin—showed that he was not one of them. He was a Frenchman, brought up in Nice, and destined for a nine-to-five life before, on his 18th birthday, he ran away. His head was full of Marco Polo, Lawrence of Arabia and wild, tripping tales of survival in hard places. Now it was he who was wearing native clothes and living on society’s margins, in a **shack** at the mouth of a cave. He was searching for the best hashish ever made, and he had found it in this valley, where the cannabis plants were protected by the beautiful goddess **Parvati**: charas, or Indian hashish, harvested as humans had probably done since the glimmering dawn of time.

> **gangliness**：瘦高且行动笨拙的
>
> **shack**：简易的棚屋
>
> **Parvati**：雪山神女帕尔瓦蒂
>

3 What he absorbed there, in the seven or eight seasons he spent stroking and smoking the **resinous** flowers, turned him into a master of hashish. It was not a skill he could easily use back in so-called civilisation. First in Japan, then in California, hashish was still a scary and dangerous pleasure, one he hid from everyone except his dealer and his wife. It took the legalisation of cannabis in California for medical use in 1996, and for recreational use in 2016, to bring his passion and expertise as a hashishin into public view.

> **resinous**：像树脂的; 含树脂的
>

4 At first he sold his hashish only to Californian **dispensaries**. Then in looser times, in seminars, workshops and videos and in **gravelly** French tones, he showed all “home gardeners” how to make it properly. This was not by violent extraction but by gently **sieving** the cured flowers, pressing and rolling them with a bottle of boiling water to release their resin, then shaping it, like a pastry chef, into cannoli. Hence his **ganja** name. With much folding and pressing he could also make giant hashish balls, sleek and brown as bread, to show off with artist’s pride. In video interviews he would **writhe** with delight as he described the tiny resin samples he had brought along, before both parties disappeared in ecstatic clouds of smoke. The interviewer might get noisy then, gasping “Holy Moly!” and needing to take a break; but he would stay serious, almost **impassive**, letting his mouth fill with the smoke, savouring each complexity and every moment.

> **dispensary**：药房
>
> **gravelly**： 沙哑的
>
> **sieve**：筛; 过滤
>
> **ganja**：大麻
>
> **Sleek**: 圆滑的、光滑的
>
> **writhe**：因痛苦或不适)扭动身体
>
> **impassive**：无动于衷的; 无表情的
>
> **Savour**: 品尝
>

5 He might have been drinking wine. The comparison was new but, to a Frenchman, obvious. Like vines, cannabis plants reflected their **terroir**; the tiniest variations in life-giving soil and life-shaping climate produced different terpenes, hence different strains. (He once found a patch in a field of wild strawberries, with a unique berry aroma; another, under nut bushes, tasted of nuts; each **cultivar** he used for hashish swept him off to a new reality.) In America’s best cannabis country, the Emerald Triangle of northern California, the rolling hills produced dozens of strains. Each had been nurtured, like a vineyard, by the love and unhurried dedication of three generations of small, often hippie, farmers. To his mind, the Triangle was ripe for the French Appellation d’Origine Contrôlée (aoc), which tied a wine officially to its place by reputation, genetics and traditional ways of work. There was no reason why Purple Kush, Blackwater, Desert Diesel and Trainwreck should not attract the same **reverence** as a Montrachet or a **Châteauneuf du Pape**.

> **terroir**：水土综合特性
>
> **Cultivar**：栽培的变种
>
> **reverence**：尊崇
>
> **Montrachet**：（产于法国）蒙特拉谢白葡萄酒
>
> **Châteauneuf du Pape**：教皇新堡葡萄酒
>

6 He reinforced the thought in two ways. First he made sure his own brand of hashish, marketed as Frenchy Cannoli 100% Ouh La La, looked as exclusive as fine wine. His best resin came in small black jars; his Royal Nepalese Temple Balls, a revival of a lost art, nestled in them singly like glossy dark-brown pearls. The lids were stamped, in the manner of **Cognac**, with V.S.O.P., for Very Special Olde Press. His second tactic was to produce a scoring system by which strains could be graded for, among other things, appearance, stability, smoothness, **bouquet**, intensity and sheer pleasure, turning **unruly aficionados** into solemn **connoisseurs**.

> **Cognac**：法国白兰地
>
> **bouquet**：芳香
>
> **unruly**：(尤指儿童)难管教的
>
> **aficionados** ：迷、狂热爱好者
>
> **connoisseurs**：鉴赏家；内行
>

7 The aoc idea caught on, but slowly and not officially. It was hard to get the classification accurate enough. During prohibition, for almost 100 years, the farmers of the Triangle had learned to keep their methods secret, much like the Indian farmers he knew. They had no records to prove legacy or constancy, and disliked the sound of any regulation. Even legalisation was a threat, because it might force down the price. He wanted to protect and promote them by making the Triangle the Bordeaux or Champagne of hashish; but they were wary.

> **Bordeaux**：波尔多葡萄酒
>

8 He was on surer ground when he compared hashish to wine as another gift of the gods. For so it was, and as he lit up he would often dedicate the smoke and the joy to **Shiva**. The cannabis plant, he claimed, could remove toxins, radioactivity, pesticides and solvents from the planet. It was also powerful medicine, as governments now realised and as he knew from experience. Hashish had soothed the traumas of his childhood and filled him with immense, positive energy—energy to become its chief ambassador.

> **Shiva**：湿婆; 后期印度教神殿中三大神灵中的破坏之神，湿婆还主个人命运
>

9 The long stigma of smoking it still stayed with him. But eventually even that would heal. In the Parvati Valley he had once cut his index finger to the bone, **hampering** his apprenticeship. But he had dressed it with the best salve he knew, and the only sort he had: white hashish ashes from a **chillum** pipe, wrapped round with a rolling paper. And then he had set off again on his wanderings, to caress the waiting flowers.

> **hamper**： 妨碍
>
> **chillum**：(尤指吸大麻用的)烟斗
>

