---
description: Crypto-SPAC fusions shed light on the question
---

# D735 Are financial crossbreeds monstrosities or labradoodles?
> **crossbreed**：杂交繁育；杂交繁育
 > 
> **monstrosity**：异形;怪异;怪物;异常大的东西 网络畸形;怪兽性;巨型动物
 > 
> **labradoodle**: 拉布拉多犬
 > 
> **fusion**：融合; 熔接; 结合; 核聚变; 热核反应
 > 
> **SPAC**：special-purpose acquisition companies，海外借壳上市的一种 。SPAC上市融资方式集中了直接上市、海外并购、反向收购、私募等金融产品特征及目的于一体，并优化各个金融产品的特征，完成企业上市融资之目的。
 > 

1 The ancients knew the source of real terror. Lions, snakes and goats (apparently) are scary creatures to **stumble** across, but it is the combination of different bits of them that is the stuff of nightmares. The Chimera, with the head of a lion, the body of a goat and the tail of a snake, whose “breath came out in terrible blasts of burning flame”, was a truly fearsome beast. Yet crossbreeds can also be cute and cuddly. Just think of labradoodles.

> **stumble**：绊倒; 绊脚; 跌跌撞撞地走; 蹒跚而行; (不顺畅地)说，读，演奏
>
> **stumble across**: 遇上，偶然发现
>
> **Chimera**：喀迈拉(古希腊故事中狮头、羊身、蛇尾的吐火怪物); 妄想; 幻想; 空想
>
> **minotaur**：【ˈmaɪnətɔːr】弥诺陶洛斯; 米诺陶; 人身牛头怪物; 牛头; 米诺托
>
> **maltipoo:** 茶杯犬
>


2 As recently as 2020 few people had heard of non-fungible tokens (nfts), the cryptocurrency **chit**s attached to pieces of digital media, such as a picture or video. But interest rocketed after Beeple, a digital artist, sold one for $69m at auction at Christie’s almost a year ago. Cryptocurrencies and associated trading platforms entered the mainstream. Institutional investors now **chatter** about including bitcoin in their portfolios. Coinbase, a cryptocurrency trading platform, went public in April 2021. It has a market capitalisation of $45bn.

> **chit**：欠账字据; 欠条; (允许某人去做某事的)便条
>
> **chatter**：唠叨; 喋喋不休; 饶舌; (因冷或害怕)打颤; 鸣叫; 啼啭; 啁啾; 唧唧叫; 吱吱叫
>

3 As these **newfangled** technologies and financial vehicles have grown in size and scope they have begun to mate. First, in July 2021, Circle, a Boston-based company which issues usdc tokens, a type of stablecoin **pegged to the dollar**, agreed to merge with Concord Acquisition, a spac founded by Bob Diamond, a one-time boss of Barclays, a bank, in a transaction that valued Circle at $4.5bn. Then in December 2021 Aries Acquisition, another spac, announced plans to merge with InfiniteWorld, a Miami-based nft and metaverse-infrastructure platform valued at around $700m.

> **newfangled**：新奇的；新流行的；最新式的
>
> **peg**: 钉; 用夹子夹住; 用楔子钉住; 使工资、价格等固定于某水平(或与…挂钩); 视为; 看做
>
> **peg to dollar**:锚定美元
>

4 Keeping up? There’s more. Not to be **outdone**, on February 11th Binance, a cryptocurrency trading platform founded in China, announced it was making a $200m investment in Forbes, a publisher and ranker of billionaires, ahead of Forbes going public via a merger with the modestly named Magnum Opus, another **spac**. Binance’s rationale for backing the union, its boss helpfully explained, was that media is “an essential element” as cryptocurrencies, blockchain technology and “Web3”, the supposed next generation of media and internet businesses where crypto-holders run social-media platforms, **come of age**.

> **outdo**:胜过
>
> **spac**: special purpose acquisition company特殊目的公司收购
>
> **come of age**: 成年; 成熟; 达到法定年龄; 发达
>

5 What should an investor make of all this? It is tempting to dismiss these new beasts—call them Cryp **spactaur**s—as nonsense. There is nothing particularly cute or **cuddly** about the way spacs typically treat their investors. In part thanks to the fat slice of shares grabbed by deal sponsors, investments in pre-merger spacs have underperformed major stock **indice**s by around 30 percentage points on average. Add in the risks typically associated with crypto-ventures and some punters may conclude that it looks more appealing to invest with the next Bernie Madoff.

> **indice**:指标；质量指标
>
> **cuddly** :逗人喜爱的；可爱的
>
> **punter**:下赌注的人，打赌者
>

6 That may also explain why these crossbreeds are yet to reach maturity. Infinite World has not yet completed its merger with Aries. Circle and Concord have not tied the knot either, despite announcing their coupling around eight months ago. The Binance investment in Forbes, meanwhile, seems at least in part motivated by the prospect of the Forbes spac deal otherwise failing to **come off**. The $200m infusion replaced those **mulled** by other outside investors, who appear to have **got cold feet**. Perhaps the Chimera and the Cryp spactaur are alike: not because they are both monsters, but because they are both seemingly mythical creatures.

> **come off**：成功; 奏效
>
> **mull**：斟酌
>
> **get cold feet**：临阵退缩
>

7 Still, the prospect of facing the bright lights of public equity markets might be just what is needed to sort the puppies from the pigs. When **quizz**ed about why the Circle spac transaction was taking longer than some others, Jeremy Allaire, Circle’s chief executive, explained that to enter public markets “companies have to be in a position where they have to meet necessary regulatory, disclosure and accounting standards so that the public can invest. That is a good process.” But it can take longer still for firms like Circle, which are “a very new kind of financial institution”. Only when one of them actually goes public will it start to become clear whether Crypspactaurs are beasts to fear or **pooches** to pet.

> **quizz**:小考；线上测验；分享
>
> **pooch**： 杂种狗
>

