# D346 Katharine Whitehorn and Mahinder Watsa died on January 8th and December 28th
1 When, as a young woman looking for solid work, Katharine Whitehorn was moving round from one **grungy digs** to another, she realised that the cookery books of the time were no use. To begin with, they assumed a knowledge of food and its preparation she simply didn’t have. Besides, it was hard to produce a decent meal, let alone anything impressive, when all you had was a **gas ring** in one corner of your room and water down the hall; and when the problem wasn’t just to assemble passable ingredients, but to find somewhere to put down the fork while you took the **lid** off the saucepan. So was born “Cooking in a Bedsitter” (1961), a bible for the cookery-challenged for decades afterwards, with its cheery insistence that yes, you could cook cabbage, if you chucked in a crust of bread to stop the smell getting into the curtains; and yes, you could knock up a delicious little dinner à deux out of packets and tins, as long as you got rid of the evidence.

> N-COUNT可数名词The **crust** on a loaf of bread is the outside part. 面包皮
>
> PHRASAL VERB[英国英语][非正式]动词词组If you **knock** something **up**, you make it or build it very quickly, using whatever materials are available. 赶做
>
> get rid of the evidence : 销毁
>

2 Such down-to-earth advice, practical, witty and, if necessary, sharp (essential to have a sharp knife, as Ms Whitehorn said) came equally from Mahinder Watsa in Mumbai, who realised that an increasing amount of his time as an **obstetrician**-**gynaecologist** was taken up with counselling people who knew little or nothing about **the birds and the bees**. In the 1960s he started a “Dear Doctor” column in a women’s magazine; in 2005, at 80, when counselling had long overtaken his **medical practice**, he became the daily “Sexpert” on the **tabloid** Mumbai Mirror. Could a woman get pregnant, ran one enquiry, if a man and a woman sleeping alone thought of making love at the same time? (Answer: “There are no angels to carry your sperm to the person you dream of.”) If acidic substances prevented pregnancy, ran another, could orange or lemon juice be poured into the vagina after sex? (“Are you a bhel puri vendor? Where did you get this weird idea?”) Young men—especially young men, though about three in ten who wrote were women—knew that if they wanted **sprightly** clarity on sexual matters they could find it on page 34 of the Mirror; just as, in Britain, women—especially women, though men were also firm fans—searched out Ms Whitehorn’s **trenchant** views on life in the Sunday Observer for more than 30 years, and after that in Saga magazine.

> the birds and the bees: 初步的性教育
>
> N-COUNT可数名词A **tabloid** is a newspaper that has small pages, short articles, and a lot of photographs. Tabloids are usually considered to be less serious than other newspapers. Compare . 通俗小报
>
> ADJ[正式]形容词You can use **trenchant** to describe something such as a criticism or comment that is very clear, effective, and forceful. (批评或评论)犀利的
>

3 Both she, and he, **cut through** the confusion with a strong sense of mission. Ms Whitehorn was the first columnist in Britain to give a voice to ordinary, non-decorative, **muddling**-through women, and became the model for the dozens of **confessional columns** that followed. She had started in journalism, a **patriarchal** club as it was in the 1950s, typecast and moody-looking in the fashion section, but quickly encouraged women (in books and broadcasts, as well as columns) to overcome any obstacles of biology, maternity or delicacy, and to write about anything and everything. As for Dr Watsa, his campaign, almost single-handed at the start, was to talk plainly and naturally to Indians about sex. From 1974, when he joined the national Family Planning Association, he promoted sex education in schools, trained teachers, wrote manuals and ran workshops, daring to raise against considerable hostility a subject that people too often wouldn’t face.

> cut through: If you cut through something difficult that usually causes problems, you quickly understand it or deal with it so that it does not cause problems for you.
>
> muddle through: to manage to do something although you are not organized and do not know how to do it. 得过且过。
>
> ADJ[usu ADJ n]形容词A **patriarchal** society, family, or system is one in which the men have all or most of the power and importance. (家庭、社会、制度等)男权的; 父系的
>

4 Sometimes real fear was the problem. Dr Watsa was quite flummoxed by the number of **missives** he got about masturbation, which made up half his postbag. Would it drain your strength away, or make you lose your hair? Would it shorten the penis? (“You talk every day, has your tongue become smaller?”) Would it make you fail exams? What if you did it on a day that the **astrologer** didn’t recommend? With infinite patience, Dr Watsa explained that it was harmless, perfectly normal, and by the way, astrologers were frauds. (Like a giant sigh, “It’s Normal!” was the title of his collected columns.) In Britain Ms Whitehorn defused the ever-present social terrors, remembering her own cringe-making attempts to navigate smart London. What if you dropped a brick in a conversation—making some **crass** joke about money, say, when talking to a bankrupt? Don’t try to pick it up again, she wrote; keep your eyes steady, and pour your attention on the other person. What if your knickers fell down in a public place? Kick them off, scoop them into your pocket and walk on, as if nothing has happened.

> V-T[usu passive]及物动词If someone is **flummoxed** by something, they are confused by it and do not know what to do or say. 使困惑; 使失措
>
> N-COUNT可数名词An **astrologer** is a person who uses astrology to try to tell you things about your character and your future. 占星家
>
> ADJ[英国英语][非正式]形容词causing feelings of acute embarrassment or distaste 使非常难堪或厌恶的
>
> drop a brick： 失言， 出丑
>
> ADJ形容词**Crass** behaviour is stupid and does not show consideration for other people. 粗暴愚蠢的
>

5 Inadequacy could be almost as bad as fear. Nothing, Dr Watsa knew, could stop young men worrying about their penis size, but he tried. To one, who sent anxious measurements of his organ at rest and play, he wrote: “Stop sounding like a tailor. Your **genitals** will look after themselves.” Would it help, another asked, if he pulled his penis for 15 minutes a day while reciting a prayer? “If that was right, most men’s penises would be hitting their knees.”

6 Ms Whitehorn, meanwhile, dealt with the eternal worries of women that they were not elegant or organised enough. Her most famous column, in 1963, defended all **slatterns** who had ever safety-pinned a hem, changed their stockings in a taxi, or seized some item back from the dirty-clothes basket “because it had become, relatively, the cleaner thing”. She implied she was a slattern too, though Roedean, Cambridge, her dress sense and her darkly posh voice rather gave the lie to that. But at **devil-may-care-ness** she did well. In “How to Survive Children” (she had two, chaotically balanced with work), she advised that bath-time went better after a glass of gin. As for housewifery, “no book of household management can ever tell you...how to begin. Or maybe I mean why.”

> 艾伦（Ellen）认为怀特霍恩（Whitehorn）是“女权主义者的声音”，并形容她擅长“引起混乱的女性生活的悲哀和幽默”。[8]她在1963年[9]关于荡妇的文章中，“白痴女人”一词被怀特霍恩（Whitehorn）冠以自己的名字，这引起了轻微的共鸣：
>
> 您是否曾经从脏衣服篮中取出任何东西，因为它相对来说已经变得更干净了？在出租车里换长袜？您能在任何商店，任何时间试穿衣服而不必担心内衣吗？在错误的房间里放多少东西-在书房里放杯子，在厨房里放靴子？[10]
>
> Roedean School:英国最强女校之一
>
> ADV[英国英语][ADV before v]副词You use **rather** before verbs that introduce your thoughts and feelings, in order to express your opinion politely, especially when a different opinion has been expressed. (尤指有礼貌地表达相反意见) 或多或少地
>
> If you say that someone has a **devil**-**may**-**care attitude**, you mean that they seem relaxed and do not seem worried about the consequences of their actions.
>


7 Both columnists continued to a great age, thriving on long and generally happy marriages. Wisdom seemed to gather around them until both were national treasures. Their essential optimism was **tempered**: Dr Watsa’s by the beatings, abuse and unhappily arranged marriages he was told of, and could do nothing about; Ms Whitehorn’s by the feeling that sex had come to **tyrannise** relationships. But the numbers of people they had braced with confidence were **legion**, and occasionally their advice was similar. To a woman worried about not being a virgin on her wedding night, Dr Watsa wrote: “Don’t worry, your husband won’t notice.” While to a young bedsitter hostess, cooking for a man, Ms Whitehorn breezed: “Don’t apologise, and never ask ‘Is it all right?’”


