---
description: Humans have long tried to determine the shape of what’s to come. But even the most advanced technology can’t solve the fundamental issues with predictions.
---

# D781 The History of Predicting the Future
1 THE FUTURE HAS A history. The good news is that it’s one from which we can learn; the bad news is that we very rarely do. That’s because the clearest lesson from the history of the future is that knowing the future isn’t necessarily very useful. But that has yet to stop humans from trying.
Take Peter Turchin’s famed prediction for 2020. In 2010 he developed a quantitative analysis of history, known as **cliodynamics**, that allowed him to predict that the West would experience political chaos a decade later. Unfortunately, no one was able to act on that **prophecy** in order to prevent damage to US democracy. And of course, if they had, Turchin’s prediction would have been **relegate**d to the ranks of failed futures. This situation is not an **aberration**.

> **cliodynamics**：历史动力学
>
> **prophecy**: 预言；预言能力
>
> **relegate**：使贬职；使降级；降低…的地位
>
> **aberration**：偏差；反常；误差
>

2 Rulers from Mesopotamia to Manhattan have sought knowledge of the future in order to obtain strategic advantages—but time and again, they have failed to interpret it correctly, or they have failed to grasp either the political motives or the speculative limitations of those who **proffer** it. More often than not, they have also chosen to ignore futures that force them to face uncomfortable truths. Even the technological innovations of the 21st century have failed to change these basic problems—the results of computer programs are, after all, only as accurate as their data input.
There is an assumption that the more scientific the approach to predictions, the more accurate forecasts will be. But this belief causes more problems than it solves, not least because it often either ignores or excludes the lived diversity of human experience. Despite the promise of more accurate and intelligent technology, there is little reason to think the increased deployment of AI in forecasting will make **prognostication** any more useful than it has been throughout human history.

> **proffer**：递上 [正式]
>
> **speculative**：推测的、猜测性的
>
> **prognostication[prɑːɡˌnɑːstɪˈkeɪʃn]**：预言 [正式]
>

3 PEOPLE HAVE LONG tried to find out more about the shape of things to come. These efforts, while aimed at the same goal, have differed across time and space in several significant ways, with the most obvious being methodology—that is, how predictions were made and interpreted. Since the earliest civilizations, the most important distinction in this practice has been between individuals who have an **intrinsic** gift or ability to predict the future, and systems that provide rules for calculating futures. The predictions of **oracle**s, **shamans**, and prophets, for example, depended on the capacity of these individuals to access other planes of being and receive divine inspiration. Strategies of **divination** such as astrology, **palmistry**, **numerology**, and Tarot, however, depend on the practitioner’s mastery of a complex theoretical rule-based (and sometimes highly mathematical) system, and their ability to interpret and apply it to particular cases. Interpreting dreams or the practice of **necromancy** might lie somewhere between these two extremes, depending partly on **innate** ability, partly on acquired expertise. And there are plenty of examples, in the past and present, that involve both strategies for predicting the future. Any internet search on “dream interpretation” or “**horoscope** calculation” will throw up millions of hits.

> **intrinsic** ：本质的；内部的
>
> **oracle**：先知；神谕、(古希腊传达神谕的) 祭司
>
> **shamans**：萨满教巫医
>
> **divination**：占卜学；预测学
>
> **palmistry**：手相术
>
> **numerology**：命理学、数秘术
>
> **necromancy**：亡灵巫术; 招魂问卜术 [正式]
>
> **innate**：生的；内在的
>
> **horoscope** ：占星术
>

4 In the last century, technology legitimized the latter approach, as developments in IT (predicted, at least to some extent, by Moore’s law) provided more powerful tools and systems for forecasting. In the 1940s, the analog computer MONIAC had to use actual tanks and pipes of colored water to model the UK economy. By the 1970s, the Club of Rome could turn to the World3 computer simulation to model the flow of energy through human and natural systems via key variables such as industrialization, environmental loss, and population growth. Its report, Limits to Growth, became a best seller, despite the sustained criticism it received for the assumptions at the core of the model and the quality of the data that was fed into it.

5 At the same time, rather than depending on technological advances, other forecasters have turned to the strategy of crowdsourcing predictions of the future. Polling public and private opinions, for example, depends on something very simple—asking people what they intend to do or what they think will happen. It then requires careful interpretation, whether based in quantitative (like polls of voter intention) or qualitative (like the Rand corporation’s DELPHI technique) analysis. The latter strategy **harnesses** the wisdom of highly specific crowds. Assembling a panel of experts to discuss a given topic, the thinking goes, is likely to be more accurate than individual prognostication.

> **crowdsourcing**：众包Crowdsourcing is the collection of information, opinions, or work from a group of people, usually sourced via the Internet.
>
> **harnesses**：利用
>

6 This approach resonates in many ways with yet another forecasting method—war-gaming. Beginning in the 20th century, military field exercises and **maneuver**s were increasingly supplemented, and sometimes replaced, by simulation. Undertaken both by human beings and by computer models such as the RAND Strategy Assessment Center, this strategy is no longer confined to the military, but is now used extensively in politics, commerce, and industry. The goal is to increase present resilience and efficiency as much as it is to plan for futures. Some simulations have been very accurate in predicting and planning for possible outcomes, particularly when undertaken close to the projected events—like the Sigma war game exercises conducted by the Pentagon in the context of the developing Vietnam War, for example, or the Desert Crossing 1999 games played by United States Central Command in relation to Saddam Hussein’s Iraq.

> **maneuver**：演习
>

7 AS THESE STRATEGIES have continued to evolve, two very different philosophies for predicting **communal** futures have emerged, particularly at the global, national, and corporate level. Each reflects different assumptions about the nature of the relationship between fate, **fluidity**, and **human agency**.
Understanding previous events as indicators of what’s to come has allowed some forecasters to treat human history as a series of patterns, where clear cycles, waves, or sequences can be identified in the past and can therefore be expected to **recur** in the future. This is based on the success of the natural sciences in crafting general laws from accumulated **empirical** evidence. Followers of this approach included scholars as diverse as Auguste Comte, Karl Marx, Oswald Spengler, Arnold Tonynbee, Nicolai Kondratiev, and, of course, Turchin. But whether they were predicting the decline of the West, the emergence of a communist or scientific utopia, or the likely recurrence of global economic waves, their success has been limited.

> **communal** ：共享的
>
> **fluidity**：液态、流动性；不稳定（性）
>
> **human agency**：人类能动性
>
> **recur **: 重现/演
>
> Auguste Comte：法国著名的哲学家、社会学和实证主义的创始人。开创了社会学这一学科，被尊称为“社会学之父”。他创立的实证主义学说是西方哲学由近代转入现代的重要标志之一。
>
> 施本格勒（Oswald Spengler 1880年~1936年），一般翻译为奥斯瓦尔德·斯宾格勒。德国唯心主义哲学家，史学家。
>
> 阿诺德·约瑟夫·汤因比（Arnold Joseph Toynbee，1889年4月14日 [2]  －1975年10月22日），英国著名历史学家，他曾被誉为“近世以来最伟大的历史学家”。
>
> **Nikolai Kondratiev** was a Russian Soviet economist and proponent of the New Economic Policy (NEP) best known for the business cycle theory
>
> **empirical**：经验主义
>

8 More recently, research at MIT has focused on developing algorithms to predict the future based on the past, at least in the extremely short term. By teaching computers what has “usually” happened next in a given situation—will people hug or shake hands when they meet?—researchers are echoing this search for historical patterns. But, as is often a flaw in this approach to predictions, it leaves little room, at least at this stage of technological development, to expect the unexpected.

9 Another set of forecasters, meanwhile, argue that the pace and scope of techno-economic innovation are creating a future that will be qualitatively different from past and present. Followers of this approach search not for patterns, but for emergent variables from which futures can be **extrapolated**. So rather than predicting one definitive future, it becomes easier to model a set of possibilities that become more or less likely, depending on the choices that are made. Examples of this would include simulations like World3 and the war games mentioned earlier. Many science fiction writers and **futurologists** also use this strategy to map the future. In the 1930s, for instance, H. G. Wells took to the BBC to broadcast a call for “professors of forethought,” rather than of history. He argued that this was the way to prepare the country for unexpected changes, such as those brought by the automobile. Similarly, writers going back to Alvin and Heidi Toffler have extrapolated from developments in information technology, cloning, AI, genetic modification, and ecological science to explore a range of potential desirable, dangerous, or even post-human futures.

> **extrapolate**:推断/测
>
> **futurologist**:未来学家
>

