---
description: The Delta variant is by far the biggest of several risks to America’s economy
---

# D520 Does America face a growth slowdown?
1 It was inevitable that global economic growth would slow from the **breakneck** pace set as economies recovered from the pandemic. Lately, investors have begun to worry about something worse: that America’s economy, which has led the rich-world **rebound**, could **decelerate** sharply. As well as supply **bottleneck**s and the withdrawal of economic stimulus, the country, like many others, now faces the ultra-infectious Delta variant. A painful slowdown remains **unlikely**. But the renewed spread of the virus is the biggest of those three dangers.

> **breakneck** ：adj. 非常危险的；极快的
>
> **rebound**：v. （球或其他运动物体）弹回，反弹；（价格、价值等下跌后）回升，反弹；n. （因挫折，危机，失恋）处于情绪波动的状态；（价格等）回升，反弹；
>
> **decelerate** ：vi. 减速，降低速度
>
> **bottleneck**：n. 瓶颈；障碍物
>
> **unlikely**：adj. 不太可能的；没希望的
>

2 To see how the latest rich-world coronavirus waves are likely to develop, consider that on July 20th America reported a seven-day **moving average** of 112 new cases for every million people. That is roughly where Britain, with a higher rate of vaccination, more restrictions and deadlier past outbreaks, was in mid-June before Delta got going. Britain now has 699 cases per million, the fifth-highest rate in the world. If all else is equal, Delta spreads two or three times as quickly as the original **strain** of the virus.

> **moving average**：移动平均法；移动平均数
>
> A moving average is a statistic that captures the average change in a data series over time.
>
> 移动平均法是用一组最近的实际数据值来预测未来一期或几期内公司产品的需求量、公司产能等的一种常用方法。
>
> **strain**：n. （植物、动物的）品种；种类
>

3 Thankfully, vaccines prevent almost all severe cases of disease and treatments have improved, saving more lives among those who are infected. That is why England lifted almost all restrictions on July 19th. But vaccines still let many **symptomatic** infections **through the net**: 12-21% of them for the Pfizer jabs America has used most. Delta is so infectious that countries will struggle to vaccinate their way to the threshold of **herd immunity** that stops the spread of the disease, even after successful campaigns. Given that 44% of Americans of all ages have not had a single dose, cases in the United States are likely to rocket upwards. States like Mississippi and Louisiana, where about three in five people are entirely unvaccinated, risk being **struck** by sudden and severe outbreaks.

> **symptomatic** ：对症；有症状的
>
> **through the net** : to escape a punishment or be missed by a system that should deal with or protect you
>
> **herd immunity**: 群体免疫
>
> **strick**: v. 罢工；打击，撞击
>

4 The economic consequences of this will depend on how policymakers and consumers react. So far Los Angeles has brought back its mask **mandate** and New Orleans says it is studying new restrictions. Even if vaccines allow policymakers to avoid the return to strict measures, consumers may be too anxious to visit bars and restaurants. In Britain measures of mobility are down only slightly since June, but the experiment is still new. **Exponential** growth means that things can change fast.

> **mandate**: n. 授权；命令，指令；委托管理
>
> **Exponential**: 指数的; 指数函数
>

5 The risk from Delta is more troubling than the other issues facing America’s recovery; that supply will struggle to match demand and stimulus is due to be removed. So long as the economy stays open, it can **ride these bumps.**

> **ride these bumps**：Riding in the middle seat in the back row of a car, where there may or may not be a bump.
>

6 Shortages, most notably of microchips and space on **container ship**s, have raised **consumer-price inflation** to 5.4%. Real wages have fallen over the past year as rising prices have **eaten into** workers’ purchasing power, and there are signs that inflation is beginning to trouble consumers. But during the pandemic households have built up $2.5trn of extra savings, equivalent to 12% of gdp in 2019. In June a record-high number of Americans told Gallup, a pollster, that they themselves were thriving financially. It may be hard to **lay your hands on** a decently priced car, but so long as Americans venture out of their homes, the service sector can power the economy.

> **container ship**:货柜船
>
> **CPI**：消费物价指数
>
> **eat into**：侵蚀、耗费
>
> **lay hands on**：弄到手
>

7 The withdrawal of some forms of stimulus may even help. Service industries are short of workers. The end of enhanced unemployment benefits, which will become universal at the end of September, might bring some of them back into the job market. Other policy cliff-edges, such as the **cancellation** of **moratoriums on evictions** at the end of July, are a source of uncertainty. But any pain there is more likely to be concentrated than widespread, because the housing market is booming and job vacancies are plentiful.

> **cancellation**: n. 取消；删除
>
> **moratorium**:  n. 暂停，中止；（金融）延期偿付
>
> **eviction:** n. 逐出；赶出；收回
>
> **驱逐租户**：An **eviction** **moratorium** is a temporary stay on **eviction** proceedings. It simply means that property owners may not evict their tenants without exceptional cause.
>

8 For the economic recovery to continue, people must be willing to mix with others. Yet, in America and across the world, that is precisely what the Delta variant puts in **jeopardy**. ■

> **jeopardy**：危险（边缘）
>

