---
description: How a broad pickup in prices puts pressure on the Fed to raise rates
---

# D631 A three-decade high in inflation sows concerns about America’s recovery
> **pickup**： (贸易或经济的) 改善
 > 

1 If an average American decided that last month was high time to buy a new sofa and then spent his evenings drinking beer on it, he would have been lucky. Both the furniture and the brew cost a little less than a few weeks earlier. Unfortunately, that same American may have been painfully aware that just about everything else—his rent, the petrol for his car, his food and even that new leafy plant next to the sofa—cost a fair bit more. The best level for inflation, economists joke, is when people do not notice it. In America it is becoming very noticeable. In October the consumer-price index rose by 6.2% compared with a year earlier, the highest rate in more than three decades (see chart 1).

2 As inflation has accelerated economists and officials have debated whether it is a transitory phenomenon—reflecting overstretched supply chains—or a more persistent problem. It is far more than an academic debate. If inflation is short-lived, the right move for the Federal Reserve would be to look through it, aware that jacking up interest rates may do more harm than good. If, however, inflation is stubbornly high, the central bank is duty-bound to tame it. The big jump in prices in October tilts the debate in favour of “Team Persistent”, as some have taken to calling it, and puts pressure on the Fed.

> **overstretched**：使···超出(承受)能力，勉强维持的
>
> **jack up**：增加(价钱、工资等)
>
> **duty-bound**：义不容辞的
>
> **take to doing**: start doing something as a habit
>

3 To be sure, a big chunk of America’s headline inflation is still attributable to the lumpy post-pandemic recovery (see chart 2). Gasoline costs, for instance, are 50% higher than a year ago, tracking the surge in oil prices. Used cars are 26% dearer than a year ago, with a semiconductor shortage leading to slower production of new cars and more demand for second-hand vehicles. And prices are rising globally, from Australia to Britain.

> **Headline inflation**: 整体通货膨胀 is **the raw inflation figure reported through the Consumer Price Index (CPI)** that is released monthly by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The CPI calculates the cost to purchase a fixed basket of goods, as a way of determining how much inflation is occurring in the broad economy.
>
> **lumpy**:粗笨的;多块状物的；为块状物覆盖的
>
> **dear**: 昂贵的；高价的
>


4 Nevertheless, optimism that supply kinks would be ironed out by now has vanished. Inflation is even hotter in America than in other countries because of the strength of the rebound there, with stimulus payments fuelling demand. Price pressures are getting broader. A gauge of core inflation, stripping out volatile food and energy prices, rose by 4.6% year-on-year in October, more than twice its trend rate of the previous quarter-century. Increasing rents suggest that elevated inflation will continue well into 2022. With wages also rising at their fastest in years, concerns are mounting about a feedback loop, in which higher salaries beget higher inflation.

> **kink**：弯或结
>
> **iron out the kinks**:
>
> To remove or fix any small problems that are present in something, such as a project.
>
> **gauge** [ɡeɪdʒ]:厚度；标准；测量仪器（或仪表）；
>
> **beget** [bɪˈɡet] ：导致
>


5 In truth there ought to be little chance of a wage-price spiral in America. A sharp narrowing in the fiscal deficit will constrain growth in the coming quarters. And, crucially, investors still expect the Fed to take decisive tightening action if necessary, which is why longer-term bond yields have not moved much. Last week the Fed announced that it would start reducing its monthly asset purchases, the first step to unwinding its ultra-loose policies implemented at the height of the pandemic. Several prominent banks have moved forward their forecasts for rate increases. Goldman Sachs, for example, had previously expected the Fed to wait until 2023; now it expects two increases next year, starting in July. But the uncertainty around all these expectations is much greater than in normal times. The Fed itself has consistently underestimated inflationary trends over the past year, so its shift to tightening may end up being uncomfortably abrupt.

> **unwinding**:解开；放松；伸直;undo
>
> **abrupt**:（言语、行为）粗鲁的，莽撞的，唐突的；生硬的
>

6 Politically, this is treacherous territory for President Joe Biden. His week had got off to a great start with the passage of America’s biggest infrastructure-investment bill in decades, giving him something to crow about. On November 10th, shortly after the inflation data were published, he instead chose to adopt a defensive posture. “Inflation hurts Americans’ pocketbooks, and reversing this trend is a top priority for me,” he said. His administration is trying to clear some of the backlogs at ports, which would help retailers stock their shelves more quickly, perhaps easing some of the pressures. Mr Biden also noted that the price of natural gas, a big contributor to inflation in October, has dipped in recent days.

> **treacherous**：危险的; 变化莫测的
>
> **get off to a good start**：开门红
>
> **crow about**：自鸣得意
>
> **backlog**：积压；
>
> **dip**：暂时下降
>

7 Yet inflation is, ultimately, out of Mr Biden’s hands. The government can only do so much to paper over global shortages. Knowledge that the Fed may feel compelled to raise rates before too long will offer Mr Biden little consolation. Historically, growth cycles tend to come to an end when the central bank tightens policy, so today’s price pressures may augur economic disappointment a little farther down the road. Mr Biden, a teetotaller, cannot even soothe his sorrows with a modestly cheaper bottle of lager.

> **consolation**：安慰；使感到安慰的人（或物）；慰藉
>
> **augur**：预示
>
> **teetotaller**：不饮酒的人；滴酒不沾的人
>
> **lager**：拉格啤酒，贮陈啤酒（味淡，通常多泡沫）
>

