# D259 Kill one unwanted species and another arises
1 IN THE HIERARCHY of **conservationists**’ concerns, animals often seem to **trump** plants. For example, feral rats that live on islands after having been introduced accidentally by passing ships are **excoriated** because of the damage they do to local wildlife. More than 100 island-based animals have been exterminated or are **imperilled** by these **rodents**—birds being at particular risk through loss of eggs and **nestlings**. The effects of the **interlopers** on the local **flora** are, however, less well investigated.

2 Rats’ main source of nutrition being seeds and fruit, this is a surprising **omission**. But it has been rectified in part by a project undertaken by Ana Miller-ter Kuile of the University of California, Santa Barbara. The object of Ms Miller-ter Kuile’s attention was **Palmyra**, an atoll that is one of the most remote **specks** of land in the Pacific Ocean. And, as she describes in Biotropica, by focusing on the atoll’s plants she showed just how extensive an effect rats can have on an isolated island’s ecology. She also showed, though, that restoring matters to the **status quo ante** **bellum** is not as easy as might be hoped.

3 Palmyra, an American territory, is the northernmost of the Line Islands. At the moment it has no permanent human residents. But it does host a scientific base that is home, at any given time, to a couple of dozen researchers. During the second world war, however, it was the site of a naval airbase—and along with the ships, planes and personnel that serviced this base came rats.

4 Because of the damage these rodents cause, the elimination of rats from small islands like this one has become something of a cottage industry in recent years. More than 400 have been thus **cleared of** their **infestations**. Palmyra’s turn was scheduled for 2011, and Ms Miller-ter Kuile saw this as an opportunity to observe how the local plants would respond.

5 In 2007 she and her colleagues established seven vegetation-monitoring plots on the atoll, each 300 square metres in area. They observed the plants in these plots until the moment, four years later, when doom for Palmyra’s rats rained down from the skies in the form of **bait** stations loaded with poison. That this bombardment did for the rats successfully was confirmed the following year, by the setting up of further bait stations. Not a single station was touched. The animals were gone. Ms Miller-ter Kuile and her colleagues waited a further three years for things to settle down, and then got back to the task of monitoring their plots. They did so for four more years.

> **6 No good deed goes unpunished**
>
> The difference this second time around was **palpable**. During both periods of examination, the researchers concentrated their efforts on juvenile trees. Between 2007 and 2011 they found that the mass of such trees remained unchanged. Between 2014 and 2017 it rose 14-fold. Ironically, however, the main beneficiary of this expansion was the coconut palm.
>

7 Though coconut palms do grow wild on Pacific islands, those on Palmyra are, like the rats which once inhabited it, aliens. They are the descendants of palms imported to create **copra** plantations. In the 1850s, before people started taking an interest in the place, Palmyra’s coconut-palm population is reckoned to have been about 4,000 adult trees. Copra farming changed this and, though the last planation was abandoned many years ago, the consequence was that in 2005 the coconut-palm population exceeded 53,000. Now that the rats are gone, Ms Miller-ter Kuile’s work suggests this population will grow yet bigger.

8 Even without its rats, then, Palmyra’s ecosystem looks unlikely to return to anything approaching its **prelapsarian** state without further human assistance. In 2019 the Nature Conservancy, an American charity that now owns most of the atoll, began a further project: **uprooting** coconut-palm **sprouts** to give other species, particularly the delightfully named grand devil’s claw, a chance. Whether **culling** the coconuts in this way will also have unintended consequences remains to be seen.■

