---
description: Airlines and train companies seem to revel in irritating their passengers with deafening annoucements
---

# D755 Adrian Wooldridge gets an earful
> **earful**: 长时间的斥责（或牢骚）
 > 
> **get an earful**：被教训一顿
 > 
> **revel**：陶醉；沉迷；狂喜
 > 
> **deafening** ：震耳欲聋的；极喧闹的
 > 

1 One of the few compensations for the **ghastliness** of business travel is the opportunity to disappear into a book, uninterrupted by colleagues, children or spouses. This is best done in a business-class seat on a plane with a regular supply of hot towels, salty snacks and **fortifying** drinks, but a **cattle-class** seat on a train will also serve, so long as it is next to a window. Yet even this simple pleasure is being taken from me. **Misanthrope**s have always had to put up with crying babies, **whining** children and tourists who interpret a **snarl** as an invitation to chat, but modern life throws up ever more audial horrors: **bores jabbering** nonsense on their phones, workaholics hammering as hard as they can on their keyboards and earphones leaking out **tinny** music. One irritation caps all the others, however. Everywhere you travel these days, you are subjected to amplified announcements on this, that or the other.

> **ghastliness**：死人般的
>
> **fortifying**： (通过添加另一种物质而) 强化 (食品或饮料)
>
> **cattle-class seat**：牛栏式座位
>
> **Misanthrope**：厌恶人类的人；厌世者；
>
> **whining**：哀鸣，make a long, high-pitched noise
>
> **snarl**：咆哮
>
> **bore**：无聊的家伙
>
> **tinny**：尖细刺耳的
>
> **jabber**：含糊急促地说话 [表不满]
>

2 Modern announcements appear to be governed by a rule that says they should be so loud that they break your eardrums but so distorted that you can’t under­stand what’s being said. I was once – joy of joys! – upgraded to first class on British Airways. ba did everything it could to soothe the travelling **plutocrat** – the champagne was chilled to exactly the right temperature, the seat delivered a relaxing massage at the touch of a button – but ruined it all with a public announcement system that **jolted** us out of our seats with a succession of **jumbled** words and blasts of **static**.

> **plutocrat**：有钱有势的人；财阀
>
> **jolt**：颠簸；使慌乱；使(精神)受刺激
>
> **jumbled**：乱七八糟的
>
> **static**：(广播或电视的) 静电噪音
>

3 The quality of pa systems is one of the great puzzles of our time. We can watch crystal-clear images on our iPads even as we **hurtle** through the sky. We can luxuriate in perfectly reproduced music on our iPhones. And yet pa systems are trapped in the age of Alexander Graham Bell.

> **hurtle**：（向某个方向）飞驰
>
> **Alexander Graham Bell**：亚历山大·格雷厄姆·贝尔（电话发明者）
>

4 Their awfulness might be endurable if the announcements contained urgent information. But the ratio of unnecessary to necessary information seems to be rising by the day. I understand the importance of safety warnings: planes do fall out of the sky every now and again and terrorists are forever plotting **carnage**. But must they be so long? It’s nice when a train conductor apologises for a 45-minute delay. But isn’t an apology for a five-minute delay really a humble-bragging boast that the company’s punctuality standards are so high that a five-minute wait is **outrageous**?

> **carnage**：大屠杀 [文学性]
>
> **outrageous**：无法容忍的；反常的
>

5 Some companies seem to revel in **redundancy**. In the railway world Amtrak is the champion of **verbosity.** Recorded announce­ments on its trains proclaim the arrival of each station with a **peroration** ending in a request to “please take this time to look about you and collect your bags”, as though the majority of passengers were otherwise likely to **canter** off the train in a spiritual **ecstasy**, leaving their material possessions **in their wake**. Airlines make a point of telling you the names of the pilots who are flying the plane and the crew who are “taking care of you”. I recognise that most **steward**s do a remarkable job of remaining cheerful in difficult circum­stances. Some of them are **veritable** saints of the airways. But these days travel is not, for most of us, an exotic adventure that benefits from a close **familiarity with** our guides but a tedious necessity best endured with as little fuss as possible. We don’t need to name-check the uniformed Virgils who guide us through these **latter-day** **Infernos**.

> **redundancy**：多余；解雇；累赘
>
> **verbosity**：唠叨；赘言；罗嗦
>
> **peroration**：总结；冗长乏味的演说
>
> **canter**：慢跑；骑马慢跑
>
> **ecstasy**：狂喜；摇头丸；陶醉
>
> **leave sth. in one's wake**：落下东西
>
> **steward**：服务员/乘务员
>
> **veritable**：十足的；名副其实的
>
> **familiarity with **: 与…熟悉
>
> **name-check**：提到(某人)名字
>
> **latter-day**：近代的；后期、 (旧时的人或物的)当代翻版的
>
> **Infernos**：地狱；阴森恐怖的地方
>
> **Virgil**: In The Divine Comedy, Virgil was sent by Beatrice to serve as Dante's guide through Hell and Purgatory（[ˈpɜːrɡətɔːri]罗马天主教相信的炼狱）
>

6 The final ingredient of this **aural** hell is enforced **jocularity**. The people with the **megaphone**s have taken to subjecting their captive audiences to their humour. The London Underground now echoes with the sound of announcers assuming “amusing” voices. Airline pilots appear to think that they are auditioning for a slot on “Saturday Night Live”. On Kenyan Airlines you have to listen to this routine in three languages, English, French and Swahili. The horror, the horror.

> **aural**：听觉的
>
> **jocularity**：滑稽
>
> **megaphone**：扩音器
>

7 As a solution, I’m thinking of buying a pair of headphones and listening to books rather than reading them. This would have the additional advantage of cutting out the noise of **yabbering** travellers. But if I did that, some disaster would **inevitably** strike, and as my fellow passengers, alerted to the **onrushing** flames by the pa system, fled to safety, I would be immersed in a novel, unaware that I was shortly to become toast.

> **yabbering** ：饶舌；闲谈；急促
>
> **onrushing**：奔跑的；猛冲的
>

