---
description: As well as offering some behind-the-scenes insights, the author defends what he considers an unjustly denigrated genre
---

# D727 A new oral history of the modern romantic comedy
1 It is one of the most famous film moments of the 1990s—and it almost didn’t happen. Ted (Ben Stiller) does not realise that he has semen dangling from his earlobe; when his date, Mary (Cameron Diaz), arrives, she mistakes it for hair gel and runs it through her blonde tresses. Ms Diaz didn’t like the scene from the beginning and feared unfortunate nicknames for the rest of her career. Mr Stiller also had his doubts about the gag’s plausibility and lobbied the film-makers to offer context, “that the character had somehow, like, lost sensitivity in his ear”. The studio responsible for the movie, 20th Century Fox, didn’t want the directors to shoot it at all. But when Ms Diaz emerged from the make-up trailer sporting an absurd crest of hair, the crew fell about laughing. So did cinemagoers when “There’s Something About Mary” (pictured) was released in July 1998.

2 The anecdote is included in an enjoyable new book, “From Hollywood With Love”, in which Scott Meslow, a culture critic, explores the fortunes of the romantic comedy from the late 1980s to today. “No Hollywood genre has been more misunderstood—or more unfairly maligned—than the romantic comedy,” he writes. “Funny, charming and reliably crowd-pleasing, rom-coms were the essential backbone of the Hollywood landscape for decades, and yet they have been routinely overlooked by awards shows and snobbishly dismissed by critics.” Through a series of short essays on films including “When Harry Met Sally”, “Love Actually”, “Crazy Rich Asians” and “To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before”, his aim is to celebrate the genre’s biggest hits and underline their cultural significance.

3 Mr Meslow has interviewed film executives, directors, screenwriters and stars, and each chapter offers a kind of oral history of a particular movie. Readers learn, for example, that Al Pacino was at one point under consideration for the role of Edward in “Pretty Woman” (the part eventually went to Richard Gere). His reading with Julia Roberts was **dire**; Mr Pacino, shirt **agape**, “barked out his lines in his **inimitable**, spittle-flecked way”. Elsewhere, Mr Meslow describes Richard Curtis’s **proclivity** for dramatising real-life events: one friend complained that the screenwriter observed his **nuptials** pen and paper in hand. And it was the actor Hugh Grant who suggested that the fight at the end of “Bridget Jones’s Diary” should not be carefully **choreographed**, “full of **right hooks** and **haymakers**”. Instead, the two **posh** men in the scene, a human-rights lawyer and a publisher, should be left to **scrap** in a hilariously pathetic way.

> **agape**: 大开着
>
> **scrap**: 打架
>
> **spittle**：唾沫，口水
>
> **flecked**：有斑点的
>

4 “From Hollywood With Love” offers insights into the film-making process and the influence of tastemakers at major studios. Executives’ views about what constitutes a believable romance, or else a worthwhile investment, can be depressingly narrow. Nancy Meyers **recounts** male commissioners’ aversion to a reference to **menopause** in “Something’s Gotta Give” (2003), a film about lovers in their 50s and 60s. Major distributors did not care for the cultural specificity of “My Big Fat Greek Wedding” (2002)—but it went on to become the highest-grossing rom-com of all time. Will Smith has said that, when Sony were looking for his counterpart for “Hitch” (2005), they didn’t want to cast an African-American woman as they thought it would limit the film’s appeal. But nor did they want to cast a white woman **lest** it anger **bigots**. (Sony has not commented on the claims.)

> **recount**：叙述、描述
>
> **commissioner**：(政府部门等的) 重要官员
>
> **menopause**：(女性的) 更年期
>
> **rom-com**：浪漫戏剧影片; 浪漫电视戏剧
>

5 Regrettably, “From Hollywood With Love” emphasises anecdotes over analysis. The tale of “Hitch”, for example, raises the question of how much the film industry has changed in the intervening years and how many romantic stories produced today have interracial couples at their heart. Rather than exploring the history of an idea or a **trope**, Mr Meslow often remains **tethered** to the specifics of a certain film. He says that there are problems with the “gay best friend” stereotype (as in “My Best Friend’s Wedding”) that are “worth unpacking”—but declines to discuss them at length.

> **trope**：转义词语; 比喻词语
>
> **tether**：拴绳; (拴牲畜的)拴链 n&v
>
> **unpack**：分析，剖析
>

6 At times the reader longs for more contemplation of what these films say about the attitudes and anxieties of their times. The ongoing debate over whether or not Bridget Jones is a feminist role model is summarised in a **sidebar**; there is surely much more to be **gleaned** about 21st-century **masculinity** in Judd Apatow’s films. Given the loneliness and yearning for human connection **precipitated** by the pandemic, might studio executives invest in more feel-good rom-coms? Netflix, as Mr Meslow observes, already releases several every year, recognising viewers’ interest.

> **sidebar**：(报纸、网站等放在较长一篇文章旁边的)补充报道
>
> **glean**：慢慢地收集
>
> **precipitate**：造成…仓促发生
>

7 The author’s conclusion that the genre is robust and flexible is correct. Stories about all kinds of love are now finding their way to the screen and are being told in inventive ways. In “The Big Sick” (2017) the female lead is **comatose** for most of the film’s running time; the affection and understanding that develops is between the **beau** and his **paramour**’s parents. “Palm Springs” (2020) traps its lovers in a time loop at a wedding. And, as this newspaper has observed, television offers a different medium through which to probe the agony and the ecstasy of relationships. The second season of “Fleabag” was a hit with viewers not only for its slow-burning, forbidden romance between a Catholic priest and its female anti-hero, but for its heartbreaking, inevitable conclusion: “It’ll pass.” ■

> **comatose**：昏迷不醒的
>
> **beau**： (女性的)男友; 情郎
>
> **Paramour**: 情人
>
> **slow-burning**：慢热的
>

