---
description: New internet firms suffer from many of the same problems as old corporate giants
---

# D512 South Korean tech workers are having a lousy time at work
1 When park hae-ryung started her job at a big internet company near **Seoul**, South Korea’s capital, she had high expectations. “They promise you flat **hierarchies,** flexible work and a young, innovative workplace,” says the 26-year-old graduate. “But what actually happens is that they give you tons of work without telling you how to do it. There’s no structure and no communication. And you can’t complain to hr because the person in charge probably went to school with your boss.” Ms Park (not her real name) is planning to quit as soon as she can. She says many of her colleagues feel the same.

> **Seoul**：/səʊl/ 首尔
>
> **hierarchy**：n. 阶层，层级
>

2 South Korea’s work culture is **notoriously** punishing. Its people work some of the longest hours in the **oecd**, a club mostly of rich countries. Office-goers have **scant** control over their time and little chance to escape from bad management. They have long complained of **gapjil**, the authoritarian attitude of senior managers who abuse their power to shout at **underling**s, insist on unpaid **all-nighter**s and weekend work, assign personal errands, and force juniors to go out drinking for hours upon hours.

> **notoriously**: /nəʊˈtɔːriəsli/ adv. 众所周知地；声名狼藉地
>
> **oecd** : abbr. 经济合作与发展组织（Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development?
>
> **scant**: adj. 不足的；缺乏的
>
> **underling**: n. 下属，部下
>
> **all-nighter:** n. 通宵的活动；通宵活动的人
>
> Gapjil就是我们一般常说的权势霸凌，进一步来说，Gapjil（갑질）指的是利用优势地位向他人展现傲慢和专制的态度或行为。Gapjil由Gap（갑）和jil（-질）组成，Gap指的是合约中的甲方，也就是拥有优势地位的一方；jil这个后缀指的是带有负面涵义的特定行为。
>

3 The country’s most **prestigious** employers, such as Samsung, a technology **conglomerate**, attract the best-qualified jobseekers with well-paid jobs and generous benefits. But the **perk**s come with strict **hierarchies**, long hours and no doubt numerous opportunities to experience gapjil.

> **prestigious**: adj. 享有声望的，受尊敬的，地位显赫的
>
> **conglomerate**: n. 企业集团；聚合物；砾岩
>
> **perk**: n. （工资外的）补贴；（非正式）额外收入；特殊待遇；渗滤式咖啡壶
>

4 By contrast, relatively newer firms such as Naver (a search engine, among other things), Kakao (messaging) and Coupang (e-commerce), as well as many smaller startups, model themselves on their **forerunner**s in America’s Silicon Valley. They promise a **meritocratic idyll** where workers refer to each other by their made-up English names instead of their job titles, are valued as individuals and are judged on the basis of their ideas rather than the hours spent at a desk. There are **beanbag**s.

> forerunner: n. 先驱；先驱者；预兆
>
> meritocratic: 精英管理的; 贤能统治的
>
> idyll[ˈaɪdl]: n. 田园诗；牧歌；田园生活
>
> beanbag: 豆袋坐垫（内填碎塑料）a very large bag made of cloth and filled with small pieces of plastic, used for sitting on
>

5 Yet a string of incidents in recent months suggests that South Korean workplaces—and bosses—are proving hard to change. In February workers at Kakao took to Blind, an app that allows verified employees to **whinge** anonymously, to **lambast** their company’s peer-rating system, which they said encouraged personal attacks and poisoned the atmosphere. In April employees at Krafton, the company behind “Player Unknown’s Battlegrounds”, a popular online game, **petition**ed the labour ministry to stop their boss forcing them to work overtime without time off.

> **whinge**: vi. 哀鸣；气愤地抱怨
>
> **lambast** : /læm'best/  v. 狠打；猛烈抨击
>
> **petition**: n. 请愿；请愿书；祈求；[法] 诉状; vi. 请愿；请求
>

6 In May, an employee at Naver committed suicide after being bullied at work, causing **outrage** in the press, **sermons** from concerned politicians and union protests outside the company’s headquarters. Coupang, the country’s biggest delivery service, which has long been criticised for the conditions endured by its logistics workers, faced a consumer boycott in June after a blaze at one of its warehouses killed a firefighter. White-collar employees grumble about overbearing bosses and **erratic** decision-making at the firm.

> **outrage**: n. 愤怒，愤慨；暴行；侮辱
>
> **sermon**:布道; 讲道
>
> **erratic**: adj. 不稳定的；古怪的
>

7 Some observers attribute the misery to growing pains at companies that are making the transition from startups to big corporations. One worker told a local news outlet that Korean tech firms seemed to be **incorporat**ing the worst aspects of Korean corporate hierarchies coupled with the American obsession with performance ratings. Others see the challenging work conditions as **par** for the course in a new industry. “Nobody teaches you what the original process for something is because the process probably doesn’t exist yet,” says Yu Dong-hyun, a 27-year-old startup worker in Seoul. “You go to these places to grow and take what you can from them and once that’s over, you leave.”

> **incorporate**: vt. 包含，吸收；体现；把……合并
>
> **par**: n. 标准；票面价值；平均数量
>

8 The companies seem keen to be seen to **tackle** the problem. Naver’s chief operations officer resigned in June following an **inquest** into the worker’s suicide. The company promised to **overhaul** its management structure. Kakao launched a consultation process for unhappy employees. Krafton **dole**d out extra holidays and said it would look into whether employees were working too much.

> **tackle**: v. 应付，处理（难题或局面）；与某人交涉
>
> **'inquest**: n. 审讯；验尸；讯问
>
> **overhaul** :v. 彻底检修；全面改革（制度、方法等）
>
> **dole out**：少量发放
>

9 It may be that the firms are serious. Until it is clear that they are, disappointed tech workers who cannot afford to take Mr Yu’s advice to leave will have little choice but to stick to the **time-honoured** method of dealing with gapjil: grin and bear it.

> **time-honoured** ：adj. 由来已久的；因为古老而受敬仰的
>
> **grin**：咧嘴笑
>

