---
description: Like many of the genre’s finest books, Anna Fleming’s voyages within as well as up
---

# D711 (重读D691)  A climber’s story evokes classic mountaineering literature
1 Less iconic than the victories of **Jesse Owens** at the Berlin Olympics of 1936—but no less galling to the games’ Nazi hosts—were those of Günter and Hettie Dyrhenfurth, a Swiss couple who won the gold medal for **alpinism**. The Dyhrenfurths, who had Jewish heritage, were born in Germany and took Swiss citizenship only in 1932. They had made two expeditions to the Himalayas, in 1930 and 1934, enjoying success that contrasted markedly with the Nazis’ own disastrous attempt on **Nanga Parbat**. Hettie, a mother of three, was 42 when she climbed all four peaks of **Sia Kangri**, capturing the women’s altitude record, which she would continue to hold for more than 20 years. Günter **pointedly** refused to give the Nazi salute when accepting the medals on their behalf.

> **Jesse Owens**：**欧文斯**(**jesse owens**)美国短跑与跳远名将，曾在柏林奥运比赛时刻五面金牌
>
> **galling**：令人恼怒；使人烦恼；使人感到屈辱
>
> **alpinism**：登山
>
> **Nanga Parbat**：帕尔巴特峰(在印度北部,喀什米尔之西北)
>
> **Sia Kangri**：锡亚**岗日**(**Sia Kangri**)，海拔7422米(24350英尺)位于喀喇昆仑山脉支脉巴尔托洛慕士塔格山脉
>
> **pointedly**：明确地；尖锐地；直言不讳地
>

2 This was the last Olympic contest in alpinism; these were also the **penultimate** games at which another Olympic prize was awarded—for literature. Among the competitors for the award, which recognised works “inspired by the idea of sports” or dealing “directly with athletic topics”, was Günter Dyrhenfurth, whose “Demon of the Himalayas” was submitted in the “epic” category. He didn’t win—the prize went to a Finn, Urho Karhumaki, for a long poem about open-water swimming—but his participation in both events highlights the close and enduring relationship between climbing and writing.

> **penultimate**：倒数第二的
>
> **antepenultimate**：倒数第三
>

3 “Time on Rock”, a new book by Anna Fleming, is the latest to embody this close **affinity**. It is the story of a young woman’s climbing life, from **nervy** teenage **apprentice** to lead climber in her 30s. It is also a “journey into the rock”, as Ms Fleming, an academic and journalist, comes to know and love the varied terrain of the **British Isle**s (and, in one chapter, Greece). It is about the fear and joy of climbing, and how a hobby can expand to become the **centrepiece** of a life. Echoing and honouring some of the classics of climbing literature, the book is a fine introduction to the **genre**.

> **affinity**：类同；密切的关系
>
> **nervy** ：焦虑的；紧张的；莽撞的；冒失的
>
> **apprentice**：初学者
>
> **British Isles**：不列颠群岛
>
> **centrepiece**：最重要的项目（或物品）；桌子中央的装饰品
>
> **genre** [ˈʒɒnrə]：流派；体裁；文类
>

4 Though most **celebrated** mountaineers have been men, many of the best books about climbing are by women. Ms Fleming **pays tribute to** perhaps the greatest of all mountain writers, Nan Shepherd, the Scottish author of “The Living Mountain” (written in the 1940s but not published until 1977). Part memoir, part Buddhism-inflected meditation, Shepherd’s work influences both Ms Fleming’s **prose** and her approach to mountain life. “The thing to be known grows with the knowing,” Shepherd thought, a conviction reflected in Ms Fleming’s attitude to the mountains she scales. “We shape the rock,” she says, and “the rock shapes us”.

> **celebrated**：著名的；杰出的；受人尊敬的
>
> **pays tribute to** ：赞赏；致敬
>
> **prose**：散文
>

5 **Traces** of other mountaineer-authors are visible too. One is the poet Helen Mort, whose physical, sinuous verse, full of granite and rhyolite, slabs and ledges, seems to have informed Ms Fleming’s tactile engagement with the mountain world. “I think through my hands,” Ms Fleming writes, grappling with the “textures and densities of rock which **erode** in their own characteristic style”. (Ms Mort’s own forthcoming memoir, “A Line Above the Sky”, is an intimate take on motherhood and self-dissolution, and the way mountains can come to fill the **void**s of a life.)

> **erode** ：风化
>
> **void**：空白；空虚
>

6 Partly a story about being a woman climber in a world still largely dominated by men, “Time on Rock” is also a kind of **phenomenological** engagement with different rocks, a close looking and feeling which reveals the **dazzling** variety of stones that might appear from a distance to be much alike. The more time Ms Fleming spends on the faces of mountains, the more she seems to recognise that the joy of climbing is not the brief **elation** of the summit, but rather the “journeys across the stones”. In a **poised** and poetic **epilogue**, in which she climbs Creag an Dubh Loch in the Grampians, she writes of how the “self is poured into the stone and the rock flows through the body”.

> **phenomenological** ：现象学的 denoting or relating to an approach that concentrates on the study of consciousness and the objects of direct experience.
>
> **dazzling**：眼花缭乱的
>
> **elation**：兴高采烈；欢欣鼓舞；喜气洋洋
>
> **poised**：处于准备状态；蓄势待发；泰然自若的；沉着的
>
> **epilogue**：后记；终曲；收场白
>

7 Some traditional climbing narratives are structured around triumphs or tragedies. The best of these—such as Joe Simpson’s “Touching the Void”, Ed Caesar’s “The Moth and the Mountain” and Jon Krakauer’s “Into Thin Air”—are **animate**d by a sense of **looming** disaster, by the horror of the empty space below. “Time on Rock” **eschew**s these **vertiginous** thrills. The nearest Ms Fleming comes to real danger is an “epic” climb up the **Cuillin ridge** on Skye, where she is forced to retreat, defeated, by the fall of night. Instead she uses the act of climbing, and the way that “intense vulnerability sharpens the senses”, to **contemplate** the beauty of nature in its loftiest reaches.

> **looming**：逼近的；迫在眉睫的
>
> **animate**：使具活力；使生气勃勃；把…制作成动画片
>
> **eschew**：避开；戒绝
>
> **vertiginous**：旋转的；令人眩晕的
>
> **Cuillin ridge**: 库林山脉
>
> **contemplate**：注视；凝视；沉思
>

8 In this, she looks back not only to Shepherd but to Gwen Moffat’s **luminous** “Space Below My Feet”, a **hymn** to the high places of Britain, as well as Robert Macfarlane’s “Mountains of the Mind” and Dan Richards’s “Climbing Days” (about Dorothy Pilley, a pioneering climber and wife of literary **critic** and fellow mountaineer I.A. Richards). All these books **tread** a line between nature writing and climbing literature; they both celebrate places and extremities, and show how time in the elements reveals the elemental self.

> **luminous**：〈文学〉美好的
>
> **hymn** ：(为…)唱赞歌；赞美
>
> **critic** ：鉴定家；评论者
>
> **tread**：踩；踏
>
> **tread a line**：To navigate or strike a balance between two sides
>

9 In a similar way, “Time on Rock” calls to mind Al Alvarez’s “Feeding the Rat”. Alvarez, who died in 2019, was best known as a poet and friend of Sylvia Plath, but he was also a committed climber. His book is a record of his friendship with the mountaineer Mo Anthoine, but it is also about the way climbing **divulges** hidden truths about the climber. **Pretence** is unsustainable on the mountainside, and the “rat” of the title—the climber’s **primal**, essential nature—takes over. As Ms Fleming puts it, “the animal within stirs”. On the **rock face**, “the **veneer** is stripped away and you can see the heart and **mettle** of a person”.

> **divulge**：泄露；暴露；透露
>
> **Pretence**：假装; 伪装; 假象
>
> **primal**：原始的；最初的
>
> **rock face**：崖面；岩壁
>
> **veneer**：虚假的外表；虚饰
>
> **mettle**：奋斗精神；毅力；勇气 the ability and determination to do sth successfully despite difficult conditions
>

10 Climbing’s exposure of character helps make it a fertile subject for literature. Ms Fleming’s book, like many of the genre’s best, is **devoid of** braggadocio. Instead it goes deep into the mountain landscape—and the minds of those who choose to spend their lives on rock.

> **devoid of**：缺乏；没有
>
> **braggadocio**：傲慢；自负
>

