---
description: Better information on epidemiology, pathogenesis, and treatments are urgent prioritie
---

# DAY 10 Covid-19: a puzzle with many missing pieces   
> By 15 February 2020, 51 800 cases of the novel coronavirus disease (formerly known as 2019-nCoV and renamed covid-19), including more than 1600 deaths, had been confirmed in China, mainly in Hubei province. A further 526 laboratory confirmed cases have been reported across 25 other countries. 1 **As is usual in the early phase of a disease outbreak, the alarm was raised as a result of the most severe cases, and the first reports describe severe pneumonia in patients admitted to hospital.** 2
 > 
> In a linked paper, Xu and colleagues (doi: 10.1136/bmj.m606 ) report a case series of 62 patients (**median** age 41 years) admitted to hospital in the Zhejiang province with laboratory confirmed infection with severe **acute respiratory syndrome** coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2), the virus responsible for covid-19. 3 All the patients presented with **respiratory symptoms**, fever or flu-like illness, or both, and all had travelled to Wuhan or been in contact with a patient with confirmed covid-19 while staying in Wuhan. All but one had **radiologically** confirmed **pneumonia**, but only one patient was subsequently admitted to an intensive care unit and none has died, similar to other reports describing less severe disease. 4  5
 > 
> Among cases reported to the World Health Organization, 15% are severe, 3% are critical, and 82% are mild (press conference WHO, 7 February 2020. https://twitter.com/WHO/status/1225797786903277568 ). The estimated overall case **fatality rate** is around 2% but outside of Hubei province the figure is around 0.05 or less, not so far from the mortality observed with **seasonal influenza**. We should not be **lulled into** inaction by this low fatality rate, however: no **cross protection** by a common human coronavirus infection is expected and SARS-CoV-2 can theoretically infect any one of us. As with influenza, the **complications** from covid-19 target particularly older people, but the disease can also strike **unpredictably** in younger age groups.
 > 
> A lower risk of **complications** is good news for individuals, but a mild disease presentation allows a larger chain of transmission through populations. A rapid understanding of the **spectrum** of the disease and the extent of **unrecognised** infections is essential. Beyond small series, such as the one by Xu and colleagues, we need more detailed information on the **epidemiology** at country level. Importantly, more than two months after the first observed cases, we still have a limited understanding of the **epidemiological trajectory** of this infection. WHO has reported the dates of diagnosis, but this is not enough. Public release of all available data on the timing of symptom **onset** should be a top priority. Wider testing for covid-19 among patients with **uncomplicated** **upper respiratory tract infections** should also be considered.
 > 
> So far, sustained chains of transmission have not been reported outside Asia. It is not yet clear why. Possible but **speculative** explanations include effective **containment**, inefficient transmission, poor reporting owing to lack of **molecular** testing capacity in some low income countries, genetic factors encouraging transmission within Asian populations, and specific environmental conditions in Hubei province and mainland China. The **genome data** available so far show no **unexpected mutation rate** or signs of adaptation, so viral factors are unlikely to be contributing to the differences observed between China and the rest of the world.
 > 
> Investigation of the **pathogenesis** of the disease, **viral kinetics**, and site of **replication** is also essential. This is not only critical for infection control but **informs** the design of **antiviral interventions**. SARS-CoV-2 has been **isolated** in **saliva,** 6 **nasopharynx,** and lower respiratory tract samples. 7 Viral RNA has been found in the plasma of 15% of the most severely affected patients, 2 and viral detection in **stool** raises the possibility of **faecal transmission**. 8 The duration and extent of viral **shedding** are yet to be **quantified**. Other unanswered questions include the rate of **bacterial complications**, influenza and other viral coinfections, and the **physiopathology** of clinical infection within the **lung**. The lack of lung **biopsies** or post mortem samples contributes to an incomplete understanding of the **pathogenesis** of this infection.
 > 
> **Treatment horizon**
 > 
> Most patients described in Xu and colleagues’ case series had **unproved** treatments. A range of different drugs and **molecules** are currently under evaluation. **Remedesevir**, a **nucleotide analogue**, is active against covid-19 in **vitro** 9 and has been shown to be safe in **Ebola trials**. 10 HIV **antiproteases**, with or without **inhaled interferon**, are currently being tested against the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV). Evaluations during the 2002-03 SARS outbreak were, however, **inconclusive**.
 > 
> Surprisingly, **anti-influenza** drugs **umifenovir** and oseltamivir are also under investigation, despite the lack of **biological rationale**. **Monoclonal antibodies** as passive **prophylactic** or therapeutic **immunotherapy** are an attractive option, although **antibodies** used to treat **respiratory syncytial virus** or influenza have not been successful so far. 11  12 **Steroids** and **methylprednisolone** seem to be used frequently, but they **prolong viral shedding** in patients with MERS-CoV and WHO advises against their use in covid-19, except for patients with an associated **acute respiratory distress syndrome.** Other interventions under evaluation include **hydroxychloroquine,** vitamin C, and elements of Chinese medicine. With any antiviral treatments, timely administration before complications develop will be crucial.
 > 
> **Randomised controlled trials** of the most promising treatments are a leading priority, and, hopefully, the road to an effective treatment and vaccine will not be too long. But despite the urgency generated by the emergence of a new disease, health providers and researchers must maintain a rigorous **evidence based approach** **underpinned** by sound ethical rules. “First, do no harm” must still be the guiding principle.
 > 
> DAY 9 session 2  source: Economist
 > 
> **Youngsters’ job preferences and prospects are mismatched**
 > 
> The world of work is changing. Are people ready for the new job **outlook**? A survey of 15-year-olds across 41 countries by the **oecd**, a club of mostly rich countries, found that teenagers may have unrealistic expectations about the kind of work that will be available.
 > 
> Four of the five most popular choices were traditional professional roles: doctors, teachers, business managers and lawyers. Teenagers **clustered around** the most popular jobs, with the top ten being chosen by 47% of boys and 53% of girls. Those shares were significantly higher than when the survey was conducted back in 2000.
 > 
> The **rationale** for this selection was partly **down to** **wishful** thinking **on the part of** those surveyed (designers, actors and musical performers were three of the top 15 jobs). Youth must be allowed a bit of hope. When Bartleby was a teenager, his ambitions were to play **cricket** for England and become **prime minister**; neither ambition was achieved (a lucky escape for the country on both counts).
 > 
> Furthermore, teenagers can hardly be expected to have an in-depth knowledge of the **minutiae** of labour-market trends. They will have encountered doctors and teachers in their daily lives. Other popular professions, such as lawyers and police officers, will be familiar from films and social media. But many people end up in jobs they would not have heard of in their school years. You settle for what is available.
 > 
> The oecd points out that some of the fastest-growing occupations are rarely mentioned by young people. But surely the surprise is not that **“user support technician”** is ranked only 158th out of 543 professions and “computer user support specialist” appears in 229th place. Rather, it is astonishing that young people know that such jobs exist at all.
 > 
> At least teenagers who want to tackle climate change, as many **profess** to, are in luck. America’s Bureau of Labour Statistics (bls) predicts that the two fastest-growing occupations over the next few years will be **solar-photovoltaic installers** and **wind-turbine** technicians.
 > 
> Some parts of the oecd survey are **disturbing**. Even though top performers in maths or science are evenly matched among males and females, a gender gap **persists** in terms of aspiration. More boys than girls expect to work in science or engineering—the average gap across the oecd is more than ten percentage points. The problem continues in higher education; with the exception of biological and biomedical sciences, degrees in stem subjects (science, technology, engineering and maths) are male-dominated. In America women earn just 35.5% of undergraduate stem degrees and 33.7% of phds.
 > 
> Things are even worse in technology. In Britain only one in five computer-science university students is a woman—a big problem at a time when the World Economic Forum predicts that technology will create more than a quarter of all jobs in newly **emerging** professions. But women are **underrepresented** in some important fields of technology; they have only 12% of jobs in cloud computing, for example. Something about the tech industry **puts off** female applicants.
 > 
> Women play a much bigger role in the health- and social-care sectors, which are also **poised** for expansion. The bls forecasts that eight of the 12 fastest-growing jobs in America over the next few years will be in those areas, with roles ranging from **occupational-therapy** assistants to **genetic counsellors**. The **snag** is that some of these jobs are not very well paid. Home-health and personal-care **aides** (with the third- and fourth-fastest growth rates, respectively) had **median** annual salaries in 2018 of just over $24,000.
 > 
> Some jobs in health care are extremely **lucrative**, of course. But another gender imbalance emerges here: women make up only one-third of American **health-care executives**. In contrast, they tend to dominate the poorly paid social-care workforce. In Britain 83% of social-care workers are female. That suggests men **shun** the field, perhaps because they do not perceive caring to be a **masculine** trait.
 > 
> The biggest problem in the labour market, then, may not be that teenagers are focusing on a few well-known jobs. It could be a **mismatch**: not enough talented women move into technology and not enough men take jobs in social care. Any economist will recognise this as an inefficient use of resources. Wherever the root of the problem lies—be it the education system, government policy or corporate recruiting practices—it needs to be identified and fixed.
 > 

