# D363 Bill Gates has a plan to save the world
1 "HOW MANY planets?” That question was posed by Mahatma Gandhi as he contemplated the environmental implications of India’s following the resource-intensive path of development pioneered by Britain. The inquiry still resonates. As the World Economic Forum, a think-tank, has put it, the global “food-energy-water **nexus**” is in trouble. Global warming is the most alarming crisis of all. How many planets would be needed if everyone in China lived in **McMansions** and drove gas-guzzlers, as many Americans do?

> **McMansion** is a slang term that describes a large, often opulent or ostentatious, mass-produced house.
>

2 For some **tycoons**, the solution is to find more planets. Fifteen years ago Elon Musk was so worried about climate change making Earth uninhabitable, he earnestly told this reviewer, that he intended to turn humanity into a multi-planetary species. He has since been **funnelling** the fortune he is making at Tesla, his electric-car company, into building ever-better rockets at SpaceX. This month Jeff Bezos stepped back from running Amazon, an e-commerce **goliath**, to spend more time on Blue Origin, his rocket venture, which he calls his most important work. The coming energy crisis, he has declared, means that “we have to go to space to save Earth.”

> N-COUNT可数名词A **tycoon** is a person who is successful in business and so has become rich and powerful. (工商界的) 大亨
>

3 By contrast, Bill Gates, the co-founder of Microsoft, has his feet firmly planted on the ground. He is just as concerned about global warming as are those **thrillionaires**, but in his view there is only one planet that matters. His new book, “How to Avoid a Climate Disaster”, is devoted to **reconciling** the legitimate aspirations of billions of people for economic advancement **with** the environmental harm that results. If humanity is to win the great race between development and degradation, he writes, green innovation must accelerate.

> **Thrillionaire**: Someone who has millions of dollars, but, due to **boredom** and a need for **thrills**, must do daredevil-type **stunts**.
>

4 Previous energy transitions—for instance, from coal to oil—took many decades. But given the pressing need to decarbonise the global economy, says Mr Gates, “we have to force an unnaturally speedy transition”. He wants governments to increase funding for climate research fivefold in a decade; disclosing his own investments, he urges them to bet on such promising but risky fields as advanced nuclear power. There should be more green procurement (a path China has followed with solar panels and electric cars) and greener regulation. But the **linchpin** of his argument is the introduction of a meaningful carbon price, to account for the externalities involved in using dirty energy.

> If you refer to a person or thing as the **linchpin** of something, you mean that they are the most important person or thing involved in it. 关键性人物(或事物)
>

5 Mr Gates is hardly the first to advance these proposals. Besides his status as one of the world’s richest people and most generous **philanthropists**, two things make his endorsement of them compelling. First, he is not a **reflexive** environmentalist. His longstanding commitment to public health and the **alleviation** of poverty led him to oppose flaky green causes like Europe’s unscientific bans on genetically modified organisms. In a moving chapter, he notes that Africa’s poor have yet to enjoy the benefits of the first “green revolution” in agricultural science, which from the 1960s boosted farming yields and saved a billion people in Asia from starvation; they desperately need more such innovations in crop science and fertilisers. He awakened to the climate crisis as it became clear that the world’s **indigent**, who have contributed least to the problem, are likely to suffer most from famines, droughts, rising seas and other effects of global warming.

> ADJ[正式]形容词Someone who is **indigent** is very poor. 贫穷的
>

6 Second, Mr Gates has long been allergic to top-down regulation. “It might seem ironic that I’m calling for more government intervention,” he **concedes**. “When I was building Microsoft, I kept my distance from policymakers in Washington.” Because he instinctively favours markets over mandarins, his policy recommendations carry more weight than the common calls heard today in America and Europe for blank-cheque spending on Green New Deals. A carefully **calibrated** push from the top, he insists, will set off a tsunami of private-sector investment and invention.

> N-COUNT可数名词A **mandarin** was, in former times, an important government official in China. (旧中国的)官员
>
> If you **calibrate** an instrument or tool, you mark or adjust it so that you can use it to measure something accurately. 校准
>
> **绿色新政**（**GND**）提案呼吁采取公共政策解决气候变化，并实现其他社会目标，如创造就业机会和减少经济不平等。该名称指的是新政，这是总统富兰克林·罗斯福（Franklin D. Roosevelt）为应对大萧条而进行的一系列社会和经济改革以及公共工程项目。[1] “绿色新政”将罗斯福的经济方法与可再生能源和资源效率等现代理念结合在一起。
>

7 Much of his book is devoted to a delightfully **wonkish** assessment of contenders in the race to solve the climate problem. In Mr Gates’s view, decarbonising electricity is the “single most important thing we must do to avoid a climate disaster”. This is not only because electricity accounts for over a quarter of the direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions caused by human activity today, but because clean power can enable a shift to zero-carbon transport (think electric cars). Greening industry is harder, he acknowledges, but he points to advances even in such unsexy areas as low-carbon cement and steel.

> **wonkish**:having or characterized by an enthusiastic or excessive interest in the specialized details of a particular subject or field, especially political policy.
>
> **8 Mission possible**
>
> Mr Gates takes on some green **shibboleths**, which he clearly considers courageous, though others will detect an outmoded mindset. He is an **unabashed** defender of carbon-free nuclear power, despite the industry’s failure to solve serious problems surrounding waste and proliferation. He **chastises** those who make a fetish out of wind and solar technologies, emphasising the constraints of the intermittent generation they involve.
>
> If you describe an idea or belief as a **shibboleth**, you mean that it is thought important by a group of people but may be old-fashioned or wrong. 过时的观点; 错误的信念
>
> **abash**:to cause to feel ill at ease, embarrassed, or confused; make ashamed 使感到尴尬、迷惑或羞愧
>

9 Many environmentalists are **clamouring** for cuts in emissions of GHGs by 2030. Mr Gates rejects that: what matters most, he counters, is getting to a “net zero” carbon footing by 2050, which means any man-made GHG emissions are offset by absorption and **sequestration**. Provocatively, he claims that “making reductions by 2030 the wrong way might actually prevent us from ever getting to zero.” For example, a breathless **dash** from carbon-loaded coal to natural gas sounds climate-friendly, as it would lead to a decline in energy-sector emissions within a decade. However, it would lock in gas technology—which is not carbon-free—into the grid for decades, perhaps blocking the adoption of better alternatives. “The things we’d do to get small reductions by 2030 are radically different from the things we’d do to get to zero by 2050,” he insists.

> If people **are clamouring** **for** something, they are demanding it in a noisy or angry way. 强烈要求,大声疾呼
>
> If you **dash** somewhere, you run or go there quickly and suddenly. 猛冲
>
> **sequestration** : the action of chemically sequestering a substance
>
> e.g. "carbon sequestration"碳固定
>

10 The most refreshing aspect of this book is its bracing mix of cold-eyed realism and **number-crunched** optimism. Mr Gates reveals that when he attended the UN’s landmark Paris summit on climate change in 2015, he had serious doubts about mankind’s willingness to take on this Herculean task: “Can we really do this?” Even now, after making the case for why the world must, and urgently, he wonders if the climate challenge will be harder than putting “a computer on every desk and in every home”.
If you refer to **number crunching**, you mean activities or processes concerned with **numbers** or mathematical calculation, for **example** in finance, statistics, or computing.

11 That is a useful **analogy**, for the techno-Utopian vision of a global internet seemed as impossible to achieve a few decades ago as solving the climate crisis does now. Ken Olsen, founder of Digital Equipment Corporation, a pioneering computer firm, once stated flatly: “There is no reason anyone would want a computer in their home.” Yet before long the digital revolution succeeded—because of a **happy** **convergence of **top-down forces and disruptions from below.

12 Mr Gates wants the same combination to take on climate change. He acknowledges the power of the state and a need for intergovernmental co-operation, something not often heard from techno-libertarians; but he also calls for more green ambition and risk-taking by short-termist investors and company bosses. Ultimately his book is a primer on how to reorganise the global economy so that innovation focuses on the world’s gravest problems. It is a powerful reminder that if mankind is to get serious about tackling them, it must do more to harness the one natural resource available in infinite quantity—human ingenuity.

