# DAY 188 An enchanting trip down the mighty Magdalena
1 For a country of 50m people, Colombia has been strangely overlooked and often misunderstood. A generation ago it was a **pariah** nation, synonymous for outsiders with **drug-trafficking** and violence. Yet Colombia has gradually moved towards internal peace, disarming right-wing **paramilitaries** and left-wing **guerrillas**, while maintaining a vibrant civil society and finding a place for indigenous peoples and environmentalism in its democracy. Colombians are characterised, writes Wade Davis, not just by their resilience but also by “an enduring spirit of place, a deep love of a land that is perhaps the most **bountiful** on Earth, home to the greatest ecological and geographical diversity on the planet”.

2 Its heart and soul is the Magdalena river. It defines Colombia rather as that other great river that empties into the Caribbean, the Mississippi, does the United States. It bisects the country, from its source in a high-altitude **bog** not far from the southern border with **Ecuador**, to the vast tropical wetlands and **lagoons** of its lower course. Four out of five Colombians live in its **drainage**. For centuries it was their main transport **artery**. It is, too, “the **wellspring** of Colombian music, literature, poetry and prayer,” Mr Davis argues. “Colombia as a nation is the gift of the river. The Magdalena is the story of Colombia.”

3 The author and his subject make an ideal match. Mr Davis, a Canadian writer, anthropologist and explorer, fell in love with Colombia on a school trip at the age of 14, and returned often. In this book he travels the thousand-mile length of the river, on foot, horseback, by car or—often—by boat. What lifts his account far above a run-of-the-mill **travelogue** is that he organised some remarkable and knowledgeable companions. They start with William Vargas, a **botanist** who grew up on the river’s upper course and has discovered more than 100 plant species. Mr Vargas is the perfect guide to the country’s extraordinary wealth of **flora** and **fauna**.

4 The Magdalena’s middle course was the bloody backyard of Colombia’s long internal conflict. Its riverside towns were an internal frontier terrorised by **guerrillas** and **paramilitaries**, its waters a graveyard for victims. Mr Davis meets survivors and hears **harrowing** stories of horror and loss. What comes through is the determination of many to forget the past and move on. The river’s lower course, celebrated in the writing of Gabriel García Márquez, is home to many zambos (of mixed African and Amerindian descent) who have created much of Colombia’s rich musical tradition of **cumbia**, **vallenato** and **tambora**.

5 As an anthropologist, Mr Davis is sympathetic to Colombia’s indigenous cultures, and sensitive to the often tragic clash of belief systems—a theme of his previous work, “Into the Silence”, on British expeditions to the Himalayas. His prose has an incantatory timbre, which occasionally **cloys** but often carries the reader deep into Colombian **ethnography** and ecology.

6 For the most part, he is admirably **judicious** in his treatment of the country’s complex conflicts. He skilfully weaves into his journey themes and episodes of Colombian history, from the Spanish conquest to the battles of Liberals and Conservatives and the tragedy of the volcanic eruption of the Nevado del Ruiz. Twice that difficult balance eludes him, in long detours on Pablo Escobar and the fall and rise of Medellín (the city that was home to Escobar’s cartel), and on Símon Bolívar, the Venezuelan who led the struggle for independence from Spain. Here Mr Davis has nothing original to say. Like many good tourist guides, he sometimes **over-embroiders**: some of what he claims as uniquely Colombian applies equally to other Latin American countries.

7 But these are minor blemishes. “Magdalena” is a **revelatory** and often enchanting book, enhanced by fine photographs and good maps (though some readers might have wished for a glossary). Mr Davis also has a message. In recent decades the river has become a **sewer**, to the extent that it faces partial ecological death. Its cleansing and **redemption** could and should be a matter of national pride. ■

