# D411 The price of progress in Peru
> **Wars of the Interior.** By Joseph Zárate. Translated by Annie McDermott. Granta; 208 pages; £12
 > 

1 Osman cuñachí was practising **free kicks** one afternoon in 2016 when thick black oil from a crack in a nearby pipeline started **oozing** into the Chiriaco river. The 11-year-old member of the Awajún tribe, the second-largest indigenous nation in Peru, heard that government engineers were paying people to clean up the spill. His family was one of dozens who **waded** into the water with buckets and plastic bottles. Sick from the fumes, his four-year-old brother was the first to give up. Osman stayed in until it got dark, hoping to earn enough to buy a smartphone. In a photo taken that day he is covered in black **smears**, smiling and swinging his bucket.

> N-COUNT可数名词In a game of football or rugby, when there is a **free kick**, the ball is given to a member of one side to kick because a member of the other side has broken a rule. (足球或英式橄榄球中的)任意球
>
> 原油分轻油和重油
>
> ooze: N名词a slow flowing or leaking 缓缓流动; 慢慢渗出
>
> V-I不及物动词If you **wade** through something that makes it difficult to walk, usually water or mud, you walk through it. 蹚 (过水、泥等)
>
> sick：恶心
>
> N-COUNT可数名词A **smear** is a dirty or oily mark. 污迹; 油迹
>

2 “It’s a **perverse** paradox of development that something as horrific as an oil spill and the death of a river could temporarily benefit a town,” writes Joseph Zárate, a Peruvian journalist, in “Wars of the Interior”. Each of his chapters investigates how a commodity extracted from the rainforest—wood, gold, oil—has changed the lives of the locals, mostly for the worse. Mr Zárate acknowledges that these industries have helped Peru and its Amazonian neighbours grow and modernise. But, he argues, too little thought has been given to the trade-offs. **Rifts** in Peruvian society over the exploitation of natural  resources too often end in violence. A war is raging between “clashing visions of progress”, and indigenous people are losing.

> ADJ[表不满]形容词Someone who is **perverse** deliberately does things that are unreasonable or that result in harm for themselves. 乖戾的; 有悖常理的
>

3 Many books about the Amazon cast its inhabitants as passive victims, or idealise them as guardians of the forest. Mr Zárate does neither. His subjects don’t oppose development itself—Osman’s father wants him to become a **petroleum** engineer—but rather the brutal way it has intruded on their lives. They are resilient and stubborn, but they are clearly **outgunned**. An Asháninka chief sees no choice but to fight illegal loggers who are chopping down trees on his tribe’s reserve. He gets killed. A Quechua potato farmer can’t imagine selling her land for a **pittance** so that a mining company can **dredge up** a yellow metal of no value to her. Her house is burned down. Doctors find dangerous arsenic, lead and mercury in little Osman’s blood. He just wants to be “a normal kid, and not be scared of getting a tumour one day”.

> V-T及物动词If you **are outgunned** in a contest, you are beaten because your rival is stronger or better than you. (在竞赛中)超过
>

4 Though Mr Zárate’s findings could fill **scathing** exposés of the kind **churned out** by Greenpeace, his technique is more like that of Svetlana Alexievich, the Belarusian writer who was awarded the Nobel prize for literature in 2015. A quote from one of her books stands as the **epigraph** to “Wars of the Interior”: “I strive desperately to…reduce history to the human being.” Like Ms Alexievich’s narratives, Mr Zárate’s relies heavily on his subjects’ own words. Like her, he focuses on the failure of the state to protect its people.

> N-COUNT[usu N 'to' n]可数名词An **epigraph** is a quotation at the beginning of a book or chapter of a book. (卷首或章节前的)格言; 引语
>
> reduce: simplify 把历史简单化成只与人类有关的历史。
>
> Greenpeace is known for its direct actions and has been described as one of the most visible environmental organisations in the world.[11] It has raised environmental issues to public knowledge,[12][13][14] and influenced both the private and the public sector.[15][16] The organization has received criticism; it was the subject of an open letter from more than 100 Nobel laureates urging Greenpeace to end its campaign against genetically modified organisms (GMOs).[17] The organization's direct actions have sparked legal actions against Greenpeace activists,[18] such as fines and suspended sentences for destroying a test plot of genetically modified wheat[19][20][21] and damaging the Nazca Lines, a UN World Heritage site in Peru.[22] Along with several other NGOs, Greenpeace was the subject of an improper investigation by the US Federal Bureau of Investigation between 2001 and 2005. The Inspector General of the US Justice Department determined that there was "little or no basis" for the investigation and that it resulted in the FBI giving inaccurate and misleading information to the United States Congress.
>

5 In Peru extraction companies operate in 70% of the rainforest. Many ignore clauses in their contracts about respecting local people but few are **held to account**. Though the World Bank estimates that 80% of Peru’s wood exports have illegal origins, only a handful of loggers have ever been sent to prison for illegally **felling** trees. In the past decade, meanwhile, more than two Olympic swimming pools-worth of oil has leaked into the country’s rivers. Mr Zárate forces readers to confront the human implications of development. “Osman Cuñachí doesn’t understand much about environmental politics,” he writes (in Annie McDermott’s translation), “but he does know how hard it is to clean oil off your body.”

> hold to account:使承担责任
>
> V-T[usu passive]及物动词If trees **are felled**, they are cut down. 砍伐
>
> N-COUNT可数名词**The** **implications** **of** something are the things that are likely to happen as a result. 可能的结果
>

6 Economic development can no doubt be pursued more carefully, but its force seems to be unstoppable, just like the flood that destroyed the Amazonian village where Mr Zárate’s grandmother grew up in the 1940s. She left to work as a maid in Lima, as thousands of indigenous women still do each year. She married at 14, adapted her speech in order to **assimilate** into urban society and saved enough money to send all her children to university. To some, hers is an uplifting story. Mr Zárate isn’t so sure: “The question is what we are prepared to sacrifice, as individuals and as a society,” in the name of progress. ■

