# D354 Ageing can be cured—and, in part, it soon will be
> **Ageless.** By Andrew Steele. Doubleday; 352 pages; $29. Bloomsbury; £20
 > 

1“Old age is a massacre,” wrote Philip Roth, long before the pandemic underscored its hazards. Even those who count as young must often watch the **ineluctable** drift of loved ones into **decrepitude**. Andrew Steele has a hopeful message for all those facing this prospect (ie, everyone). Old age needn’t be a massacre; in fact, old age needn’t even be old.

> 时间是把杀猪刀。但是之后可能不再是了。
>

2 Mr Steele’s thesis in “Ageless” is that ageing can be cured—and, at least in part, that it very soon will be. The giant **tortoises** of the Galapagos Islands show no age-related decline, in some ways seeming as youthful at 170 as at 30. Mr Steele thinks this phenomenon, known as negligible senescence, is **within humanity’s grasp**, too.

> A **tortoise** is a slow-moving animal with a shell into which it can pull its head and legs for protection. 龟
>
> If you say that something is **within** someone's **grasp**, you mean that it is very likely that they will achieve it.
>
> Steele先生有个“不老”理论，源自于加拉帕戈斯群岛上有群乌龟似乎不会老。他认为，乌龟能做到，人也可以。
>

3 Whether or not readers are persuaded that ageless humans could ever be more than a theoretical possibility—and it is a stretch—this book will convince them that discounting the theoretical possibility altogether is based on nothing but prejudice. Western art may have something to do with it, **bristling** as it is with morality tales about the **folly** of wanting to turn back the clock; but there is actually no good reason to assume an upper limit to **longevity**, or that ageing must come with decline. And there is quite a lot of evidence to the contrary. Without the rich world’s denizens really noticing, a life that ends after the biblical **three score years and ten** has already come to seem a life cut short; instead, 90 is now seen as a good **innings**.

> If you **discount** an idea, fact, or theory, you consider that it is not true, not important, or not relevant. 不理会
>
> If you say that a particular action or way of behaving is **folly** or a **folly**, you mean that it is foolish. 愚蠢的事
>
> A **score** is twenty or approximately twenty. 二十; 二十左右
>
> '**Three score** and **ten**' is the nominal span of a human life. In the days that this expression was coined that span was considered to be seventy **years**.古稀之年(70岁以后).
>
> **inning :** the batting turn of a player or team 局; 回合
>
> 人们对于长生不老的否定，很大程度上是源于偏见，典型之一，是返老还童在西方文化中的道德困境。人的盲目观念给不老的可能性设了限，曾几何时，圣经中说的一辈子便是70载，而如今，70岁就挂了的人可算死得早喽，活到90才够本。
>

4 This prejudice held back the field of bio**gerontology** for a very long time, but in the past few decades some scientists have cast it aside. This has enabled them to see that the real folly lies in the attempt to cure the diseases of old age one by one, rather than tackling their underlying cause—ageing itself. Now they are trying to understand that process in all its extraordinary complexity, and to intervene much earlier.

> **gerontology:** 老年学
>
> “生物老年学”这门学科的发展，受困于上述偏见很久了，直到近些年才开展有了突破。科学家们开始探寻衰老的本质，并尝试对衰老进行提前干预。
>

5 They have many tools at their disposal, and Mr Steele, who has a background in computational biology, evaluates them expertly and with **verve**. They range from drugs that mimic the life-extending effects of dietary restriction to gene-editing tools such as crispr and computer models that simulate whole biological systems. Such models may eventually prove the key that unlocks the inner Methuselah in everyone, by revealing both the limits to these systems and their redundancies: what can be **tweaked**, and what had best be left alone.

> Methuselah: 玛士撒拉; 一个据说活了969年的族长 (Douay spelling Mathusala)
>
> **Verve** is lively and forceful enthusiasm. 激情
>
> If you **tweak** something such as a system or a design, you improve it by making a slight change. 稍稍改进(如系统或设计)
>
> 科学家们的工具有很多，诸如模拟饮食限制的药物，基因编辑技术，模拟生物系统的计算机模型等等。
>

6 Temporarily—and with a bitter irony—covid-19 has slammed the brakes on this **burgeoning** area of research. But Mr Steele thinks its first dividends will emerge within a couple of years, perhaps in the form of **senolytic** drugs that clear the accumulating cellular **detritus** of a long life. He makes the valid point that if, for every year of scientific endeavour, a year could be added to the average human lifespan, old age would recede into the future at the same rate as today’s population approached it. That would itself be quite a milestone on the road to negligible **senescence**.

> If something **burgeons**, it grows or develops rapidly. 迅速生长
>
> A **senolytic** (from the words senescence and -lytic, "destroying") is among a class of small molecules under basic research to determine if they can selectively induce death of senescent cells and improve health in humans.
>
> **senescence**: n.衰老
>
> **Detritus** is the small pieces of rubbish or waste material that remain after an event has finished or when something has been used. 残余
>
> 抗衰老类药物最有可能带来新的突破。要是技术能够做到每年人类平均寿命增长的速度大于1岁，那人类就迈入走入长生不老之路啦~
>

7 This interim goal is easily within reach, he claims. Many scientists agree—and are among those who have chosen to take experimental anti-ageing drugs. For some of these treatments they have calculated that the risks are small, compared with the potential benefits. The true sign that a scientific revolution is **in the offing** is that the scientists themselves have bought into it. Whether that revolution is desirable is a different question, which it may fall to a new generation of artists to answer.

> **in the offing **: 即将发生的；在视野内的远处海面
>
> 药物实验表明，目标是很有希望实现的。药物效果明显且风险不高。不过长生不老的实现会带来新的哲学问题，这就留待后人评说喽。
>

