---
description: Three books explain why it matters—and can easily be lost
---

# D508 The vital art of talking to strangers
> **Hello, Stranger.** By Will Buckingham. Granta; 336 pages; £16.99
 > 
> **The Power of Strangers. By Joe Keohane.** Random House; 352 pages; $28. Viking; £16.99
 > 
> **Fractured.** By Jon Yates. Harper North; 348 pages; $28.99 and £20
 > 

1 Attitudes to strangers tend to follow a familiar pattern. Children are taught never to speak to unknown grown-ups, especially those regarded by their parents as untrustworthy. The onset of adolescence and young adulthood brings a bursting desire to interact with all sorts of people, particularly the kind who might not **elicit** family approval. Whether the resulting encounters are sexual or social, they **confer** a thrilling **frisson** of escape.

> **elicit**：引起 (反应)
>
> **confer**：授予 [正式]
>
> **frisson[friːˈsɔːn]**： (短暂、突然的)兴奋或恐惧 [文学性]
>

2 Social circles generally narrow again as people find life-partners, form households and produce offspring of their own. Time becomes scarce; new friendships are often based on sharing the burden of child care. Some people never recover the youthful zest for **unforeseen liaison**s. Professional duties swell even as parental ones diminish, and the inclination sags. In old age, even if curiosity and charisma remain **undimmed**, **frailty** makes new **serendipitous** connections harder to establish.

> **unforeseen**：未预见的
>
> **sag**：下垂; 下陷
>
> **undimmed**：(目光、光线等)未变暗的
>
> **serendipitous[ˌserənˈdɪpətəs]**：有意外收获的 [文学性]
>
> **Liaison**:  联络()
>
> **frailty**：弱点、虚弱
>

3 But that is not the whole story. In mid-life and beyond people can still experience the joy of a random meeting, however short, which somehow **touches a nerve**. That might involve nothing more than a smile, or a **chance remark** that hits an emotional spot; or it might be an unexpectedly deep conversation on a plane or train, a surge of mutual understanding that is life-affirming even if the **inter'locutor** is never seen again. This aspect of the **promise** and **peril** of strangers has enticed storytellers—from the **rapture** of “Brief Encounter” and “Before Sunrise” to the ruin of “Strangers on a Train”. The knowledge that the exchange will be a one-off can permit a delicious, **uninhibited** frankness.

> **touches a nerve**：碰到痛处、提及伤心敏感的话题
>
> **inter'locutor**：谈话对象 [正式] [oft poss N]
>
> **rapture**：狂喜 [文学性]
>
> **uninhibited**： 不受约束的
>
> **chance remark**：无意中说出的话
>
> **promise**：a statement in which you say that something will definitely happen, or you will definitely do something
>
> **peril**：严重危险；祸害；险情
>

4 In the age of covid-19 and Zoom, the chronological pattern has been **warped**. Instead of their **hazy** possibilities and risks, strangers have assumed an all-too-literal role as a looming source of infection. During lockdowns they are officially to be avoided. Yet youngsters still long, dangerously, for the ecstasy of communion, not just with **edgy** individuals but anonymous crowds. People of all ages have come to miss the human stimulation of busy high streets or trains, or the comforting sense of fellowship in a cinema or theatre audience.

> **chronological pattern **: 时间顺序模式
>
> **warp**：(尤指因受潮、受热而) 翘曲
>
> **hazy**：(物体的外形等) 模糊不清的
>
> **edgy**：急躁不安的 [非正式]
>

5 So this is an **apt** moment for three books about meeting strangers. Will Buckingham has written a moving memoir of finding solace, after the death of his life-partner, in travelling and talking in lands such as Myanmar that are culturally distant from his native England. Joe Keohane, an American journalist, argues that communicating empathetically with strangers is vital and potentially life-changing. Jon Yates, who runs a youth charity based in London, **frets** that deep **fissures** in Western societies are making it impossible for people to reach, even casually, between classes, religions, ethnicities and generations.

> **apt**：恰当的
>
> **solace**：安慰；慰藉
>
> **fret**： 担心
>
> **fissure**：(尤指岩石)裂缝
>

6 All three authors make sweeping generalisations about the evolution of human society, from hunter-gatherers to the age of Homer and beyond. But they are more interesting when they **reflect**, using personal experience or scientific research, **on** how people live and communicate now. In different ways, they all make two separate but related points. First, interacting meaningfully with a new person can bring huge rewards—but it is a skill that must be cultivated and can easily be lost. Second, the self-segregation of modern Western societies means that, for many people, conversing with some fellow citizens seems pointless, **undesirable** or **outlandish**. The second problem **exacerbates** the first: if you consider others **beyond the pale**, why make the effort to get to know them?

> **Reflect on**: 思考
>
> **undesirable**：不受欢迎的; 不利的
>
> **outlandish**：稀奇古怪的 [表不满]
>
> **exacerbate**：使…恶化 [正式]
>
> **beyond the pale**：outside the bounds of acceptable behavior圈子以外、越轨；出格
>
> **Pale**: n.桩；栅栏；范围；栅内
>

7 As both Mr Keohane and Mr Yates emphasise, in Britain and America political divisions have **ossified** into tribal ones. Supporters and opponents of Brexit live in discrete clusters; Republicans and Democrats see each other as bad people, not fellow Americans whose opinions happen to differ. These opposing sides have become strangers to one another. Mr Buckingham focuses on the pleasures and **pitfalls** of encounters in remote places where the stakes are lower because the acquaintanceships are bound to be temporary—in a holiday flat-share in Helsinki or while travelling through the Balkans. But, like the other two, he notes that **wariness** of unfamiliar people is neither new nor **insuperable**.

> **ossify**： (思想、系统或组织)僵化; 使...僵化 [正式]
>
> **pitfall**：隐患
>
> **Helsinki['helsiŋki]**：赫尔辛基（芬兰首都）
>
> **wariness**：谨慎、小心
>
> **insuperable**：不能克服的 [正式]
>
> **Faces look ugly when you’re alone**
>

8 Mr Keohane and Mr Yates offer tips on befriending strangers. Mr Keohane describes exercises in which groups of Republicans and Democrats were, with great difficulty, **coaxed** to overcome **stereotypes** and see one another as **rounded** individuals. They were trained to ask each other good questions and avoid **name-calling**. Mr Yates discusses the case for a kind of national social service that would encourage youngsters to mix with other groups and generations. Both have homely micro-solutions that readers can apply in daily relations—assume the best of others, remember that most have stories they are longing to tell, react **philosophically** when a friendly approach is **rebuffed**.

> **coax**：劝诱、哄
>
> **stereotypes**：刻板印象
>
> **name-calling**：骂人、中伤
>
> **rounded**：(个性) 全面发展的 [表赞许]
>
> **rebuff**：拒绝
>
> **philosophically**:  在哲学上；贤明；镇定自若
>
> **homely**：如在家一般; 舒适自在的 [英国英语]、相貌平平的 [美国英语]
>

9 A telling point that none of the books captures is a paradoxical one: some of the most sophisticated forms of interaction between strangers occur in societies that are chronically divided. Think, for example, of rural Northern Ireland, or of parts of the former Ottoman Empire, such as Lebanon, where residents have lived in separate communal **silos**. In ways impenetrable to outsiders, the **denizens** of such places develop perfect **antennae** for the **affiliation** of a stranger and adjust their remarks accordingly. The **ensuing** exchanges occur within well-understood parameters—including a sense that social categories are resilient and **pleasantries** will not change them. But tact allows people from **antagonistic** camps to have amicable encounters and transactions.

> **silo**： (农场储存草料、谷物等的)筒仓
>
> **denizen**：生活在特定地方的人(动物或植物) [正式] [usu N 'of' n]
>
> **antennae**：触角
>
> **Affiliation**:  加入、联系
>
> **Ensuing** :. 随后发生的
>
> **pleasantries**: 浅易寒喧；轻松幽默
>
> **antagonistic**：对立情绪的；对抗的；敌对的
>
> **amicable** 友好地
>

10 All three authors are inclined to overstate the ability of brief interactions to **stave off** conflict. Yet at least this much is true: a capacity to engage with new people in civilised, hu'mane and meaningful ways is a necessary condition for social peace, even if it is not a sufficient one. That points up a half-hidden cost of covid-19. Children educated on screen; teenagers bouncing off the walls; adults working at home; lonely pensioners: more or less everyone’s social skills have been **atrophying**, with consequences not only for individuals but, perhaps, for the **fabric** of society.

> **stave off**：延缓、避开
>
> **atrophy**： (肌肉或身体其他部分)萎缩 [正式]
>
> **fabric**： (社会或系统的) 结构
>
> **bouncing off the walls**：to be too excited and have a lot of energy that you cannot keep still
>

11 As lockdowns lift, people are now stumbling back into a world of accidental collisions, some eagerly, some **queasily**, most with an odd sensation of novelty after a year of **hibernation**. The lesson of these books is that the easing of restrictions is not just a **coveted** opportunity to reconnect with those you love and resemble. It also restores a freedom, long taken for granted even if little used, to come to know the profoundly different.

> **queasy**：感到恶心的 [非正式]
>
> **coveted**：令人垂涎的
>
> **Hibernation**: (动物)冬眠；冬蛰；(计算机等)休眠
>

