---
description: Blame a mixture of conditioning, carpets and concrete concerns
---

# D628 Why executives like the office
1 An office is meant to bring people together. Instead, it has become a source of division. For some, the post-pandemic return to the workplace is an opportunity to re-establish boundaries between home and job, and to see colleagues in the flesh. For others it represents nothing but pointless travelling and heightened health risks. Many ingredients determine these preferences. But one **stands out**: seniority.

> If you meet or see someone **in the flesh**, you actually meet or see them, rather than, for example, seeing them in a film or on television. 本人
>
> **seniority**:资历；年长；级别高
>

2 Slack, a messaging firm, conducts regular surveys of global knowledge workers on the future of work. Its latest poll, released in October, found that executives are far keener to get back to the office than other employees. Of those higher-ups who were working remotely, 75% wanted to be in the office three days a week or more; only 34% of non-executives felt the same way.

> **knowledge worker**:知识工作者；知识型员工；知识员工
>

3 The divide has played out publicly at some companies. Earlier this year, employees at Apple wrote an open letter to Tim Cook, the firm’s chief executive, objecting to the assumption that they were thirsting to get back to their desks: “It feels like there is a disconnect between how the executive team thinks about remote/location-flexible work and the lived experiences of many of Apple’s employees.” Why are bigwigs so much keener on the office?

> **live**:真的；活泼的；(空气)清新的；(颜色)鲜艳的
>
> **lived experience**:亲身经历的体验；实际的生活经验
>
> **bigwig**:大人物；大亨；要人
>

4 Three explanations come to mind: the cynical, the kind and the subconscious. The cynical one is that executives like the status that the office confers. They sit in nicer rooms on higher floors with plusher carpets. Access to them is guarded, politely but ferociously. When they walk the floors, it is an event. When they sit in meeting rooms, they get the best chairs. On Zoom the signals of status are weaker. No one gets a bigger tile. Their biggest privilege is not muting themselves, which isn't quite the same power rush as using the executive dining room.

> **cynical**:认为人皆自私的；愤世嫉俗的；悲观的；怀疑的
>
> **confer**:授予；协商；商讨；交换意见
>
> **plush**:长毛绒(做)的；漂亮的；舒服的；〈俚〉豪华的
>
> **tile**:地砖；瓦片；（棋盘游戏的）棋子
>
> 功率骤增；冲锋陷阵
>

5 The kind explanation is that executives believe that in-person interactions are better for the institutions they lead. Working from home “doesn’t work for people who want to hustle, doesn’t work for culture, doesn’t work for idea generation," was the verdict of Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, earlier this year. Ken Griffin, the boss of Citadel, a hedge fund, has warned young people not to work from home: “It’s incredibly difficult to have the managerial experiences and interpersonal experiences that you need to have to take your career forward in a work-remotely environment.”

> **hustle**:推搡；猛推；催促（某人作决定）；（常指非法地）兜售 n.忙碌喧嚣
>
> **verdict**:裁决；结论
>

6 These concerns have substance. Virtual work risks entrenching silos: people are more likely to spend time with colleagues they already know. Corporate culture can be easier to absorb in three dimensions. Deep relationships are harder to form with a laggy internet connection. A study from 2010 found that physical proximity between co-authors was a good predictor of the impact of scientific papers: the greater the distance between them, the less likely they were to be cited. Even evangelists for remote work make time for physical gatherings. "Digital first does not mean never in person," says Brian Elliott, who runs Slack's research into the future of work.

> If you say that something has no **substance**, you mean that it is not true. 正确性
>
> Information silo 信息烟囱， 又称为信息孤岛、孤岛式信息系统或者烟囱式信息系统，指的是一种不能与其他相关信息系统之间进行互操作或者说协调工作的信息系统
>
> You can refer to something that helps you predict something that will happen in the future as a **predictor** **of** that thing. 借以作出预测的事物
>
> An **evangelist** is a person who travels from place to place in order to try to convert people to Christianity. 福音传道者
>

7 But the advantages of the office can also be exaggerated. The Allen curve, which shows how frequency of communication goes down the farther away colleagues sit from each other, was formulated in the 1970s but still **rings true** today. Every workplace has corners that people never visit; no gulf is greater than that between floors. And the disadvantages of remote working can be overcome with a bit of thought. Research by a trio of professors at Harvard Business School found that lockdown-era interns who got to spend time with senior managers at a "virtual watercooler" were much likelier to receive full-time job offers than those who did not.
**rings true** ： sounds ture

> **watercooler**:饮水机；【新闻传媒】指办公室里人们可以放松闲谈的场所
>
> https://www.achurchconsulting.com/blog/creating-virtual-watercooler-moments-for-your-remote-team/
>
> 在交流理论中，艾伦曲线是一种图形表示，它显示了工程师之间的交流频率随着工程师之间距离的增加而呈指数下降。
>


8 If physical workspaces have drawbacks, and remote working can be improved upon, why are executives clear in their preferences? The subconscious supplies a third explanation. As Gianpiero Petriglieri of insead, a French business school, observes: “people advising youngsters to go into the office are those who made their way in that environment.” Executives who have achieved success by working in an office are the least likely to question its efficacy.

> INSEAD:欧洲工商管理学院；法国欧洲工商管理学院；欧洲商业管理学院
>
> **improve on/upon**. : to do better than (something previously done)
>

9 That is a problem, especially since a majority of executives say that they have designed return-to-work policies with scant input from employees. A hybrid future beckons, in which workers divide their time between home and office. Managers need to improve both environments, not assume that one is obviously superior to the other.

> If something **beckons**, it is so attractive to someone that they feel they must become involved in it. 召唤
>
> **scant**:一丁点的；微小的；不足的；欠缺的
>
> **beckon**:招手示意；举手召唤；吸引；诱惑;很可能发生（或出现）
>

