# D266 Why is the idea of import substitution being revived?
1 FOR THE past quarter-century, growth came so easily to the developing world that it can be hard to remember it was ever **otherwise**. Fuelled by globalisation, real GDP per person in emerging economies more than doubled from 1995 to 2019, in **purchasing-power-parity** terms. In advanced countries, by contrast, it grew by only 44%. The burst of growth consigned to the scrapheap decades’ worth of arguments about whether and how poor countries could catch up with rich ones. But explosive trade growth has ended, and the industrialised world is turning inward. Some governments are therefore **dusting off** old ideas. Among them is “import-substituting industrialisation” (ISI), a strategy that seeks to develop industrial capacity by shielding domestic producers from foreign competition. Many countries may feel they have little choice but to give the idea a try, but as the conditions that might allow it to succeed are generally absent in the poorest of economies, the revival seems doomed to fail.

> **purchasing-power-parity:** 购买力平价，是一种根据各国不同的价格水平计算出来的货币之间的等值系数，使我们能够在经济学上对各国的国内生产总值进行合理比较，这种理论汇率与实际汇率可能有很大的差距。购买力平价计算单位为国际元或称作“国际货币单位”。
>

2 Between 1990 and 2008, global trade as a share of GDP rose from 39% to 61%. This “hyperglobalisation”, as Martin Kessler and Arvind Subramanian of the Peterson Institute for International Economics dubbed it, facilitated rapid, broad-based economic expansion. After the late 1990s growth in incomes per head in nearly three-quarters of developing countries outpaced that in America, by an average of more than three percentage points a year. Global supply chains proliferated. Countries with a small industrial base, or none at all, could export manufactured goods by finding niches in production chains, following a **shortcut** to industrialisation.

3 The era of openness, however, is drawing to a close. The share of trade in world GDP fell after the global financial crisis; last year it was still below its 2008 peak. The level of world trade is forecast to fall by more than 9% this year. In America and Europe shortages of medical supplies and a souring relationship with China have **rekindled** interest in protecting domestic producers. But it is the biggest winners of hyperglobalisation, such as China and India, that are leading the way back to ISI. The share of foreign value-added in China’s exports fell by almost ten percentage points from 2005 to 2016; its government’s “Made in China 2025” campaign aims to make it self-sufficient in the production of many key goods. In India, Narendra Modi, the prime minister, unveiled a campaign for self-reliance as part of his pandemic-recovery package in May.
Foreign value-added content of exports corresponds to the value added of inputs that were imported in order to produce intermediate or final goods/services to be exported.

4 As poor-country politicians often point out when pressed by rich-world leaders to liberalise, many of today’s advanced economies practised elements of an ISI strategy as they industrialised. Alexander Hamilton, America’s first treasury secretary, used tariffs to protect domestic manufactures and reduce its dependence on Britain. In the 19th century European rivals worried that abundant British manufactures would stunt industrial development and leave them at a permanent military disadvantage. Governments erected tariff barriers and mobilised domestic capital, often squeezed out of the agricultural sector, towards state-supported industry. Russia and Japan followed western Europe in promoting domestic industry as a matter of national security.

5 Still, past experience also shows why the renewed interest in ISI may be misguided. Its intellectual **heyday** was in the 1950s, when economists like Raúl Prebisch and Gunnar Myrdal (the latter a Nobel prizewinner) argued against a **laissez-faire** approach to trade in developing economies. Their views were informed by the constraints of their era. Poor countries were desperately short of hard currency with which to obtain imports after the second world war. The replacement of some imports with domestic production was seen as a way to ration foreign exchange. More generally, advocates for ISI rejected the idea that specialisation and trade would leave every economy better off. Poor countries that stuck to their comparative advantage would remain exporters of **primary products** for ever, it was thought, never making the leap to industrialisation and the higher incomes it would bring.

6 The flaws of ISI rather quickly became apparent, though. Many governments used it to **bestow** favours upon domestic industries based on political self-interest rather than rational economic calculation. The enthusiasts among economists lost interest. Tariff barriers left some countries nearly closed off to trade. Meanwhile, import-substituting economies in Latin America and South Asia fell behind a handful of others that opted instead to promote exports made with abundant cheap labour. Export-orientation was not a sure route to development; success stories like South Korea and Taiwan were rare before the emerging-market acceleration of the 1990s. Nor was it a laissez-faire endeavour; the governments of the Asian Tigers meddled extensively in their economies, subsidising favoured industries and firms. But global competition placed relentless pressure on exporters, forcing them to become more efficient and encouraging the acquisition of technical know-how. Those in ISI economies, sheltered behind high tariffs, tended instead to be small, inefficient and complacent.

> **7 A matter of great imports**
>
> What does all this mean for the revival in ISI today? In economies with large domestic markets and capable states, import substitution may well allow governments to achieve strategic goals without **nudging** firms into growth-**sapping** complacency. China probably **fits the bill**. In India, with its poorer and less integrated domestic market, the strategy is riskier.
>

8 In smaller economies with weak institutions, however, ISI-related policies are doomed to fail. The consumers, competition and technologies that developing economies can only find on global markets are a crucial prerequisite for their industrialisation. If the world’s biggest economies focus on their own strategic interests alone, they will deprive others of access to these precious resources—and the golden age of emerging-market growth will become an ever more faded memory. ■
**D265** **Exorcism** **has a long and** **spooky** **history**
Demand surged after the release of “The Exorcist” in 1973
**The Penguin Book of Exorcisms.** Edited by Joseph Laycock.Penguin Classics; 336 pages; $17.
（Haunting accounts of real-life exorcisms through the centuries and around the world, from ancient Egypt and the biblical Middle East to colonial America and twentieth-century South Africa）

1 WITH DISARMING **banality**, in April 2012 Father Michael Maginot, a Catholic priest in Indiana, wrote to his bishop about a recent event. During his weekly Bible class, he had “received a call…to perform an exorcism on a boy witnessed by many as walking backwards up a wall.”

2 The boy was the son of Latoya Ammons, the haunting of whose house and the apparently supernatural possession of whose offspring became the subject of intense media **coverage** and, later, a film. The priest’s request for permission to conduct the **ritual** makes suitably chilling reading for Halloween. Among other things, Ms Ammons’s children were said to break into a “demonic chant, where one would stop and the other would pick up where [the first] left off”.

3 In his commentary on this letter, Joseph Laycock of Texas State University—author of “Speak of the Devil” and “Vampires Today”—does not mention that the family’s doctor thought the whole thing was a **hoax**, nor that previous and subsequent **tenants** of Ms Ammons’s house did not experience **paranormal** activity. His **anthology** of writings about exorcism, including eyewitness accounts, is short on scepticism (though not wholly lacking in it). But the book shows in illuminating detail how the belief in **demonic possession** stretches back more than 2,500 years.

4 An early presumed victim was Princess Bentresh, the daughter of a **potentate** in what today is Turkey. Her resident demon was said, in a later inscription, to have fled at the sight of a statue of Khonsu, the Egyptian lunar god. Mr Laycock **surmises** that Bentresh may actually have been throwing a **tantrum** because the pharaoh Rameses II had married her sister rather than her.

5 Demons able to take possession of people **feature in** virtually all the world’s main religious traditions: bhuts in the Indian subcontinent, fox spirits in China and Japan, zar in parts of Africa and the Middle East. A hadith (a text recounting a saying of the Prophet) has Muhammad driving a demon from the body of a young boy. He “opened the boy’s mouth and blew into it three times, and he said, ‘In the name of God—I am the servant of God—Go away, O enemy of God!’”

6 Many Muslims are nevertheless sceptical of demonic possession, and the leaders of the more established Christian churches had until recently come to see exorcism as something between a **superstition** and an embarrassment. Yet today it is in greater demand in the Christian world than at any time since the **febrile witch-hunting** days of the 17th century. William Friedkin’s **cult** film of 1973, “The Exorcist” (see picture), prompted a huge uptick in America, while the global spread of **Pentecostal** and **evangelical** Christianity has **propagated** a rebranded version of exorcism as “**deliverance** ministry”.

7 Some believers will doubtless see this as the result of a rise in genuine demonic activity. Others may side with a character in one of the “**Colloquies**” of that **dogged** old sceptic, Erasmus, who argued that “many Things that have been printed and published, as true Relations, were only by Artifice and Imposture, Impositions upon credulous Persons.” ■
In the motley ranks of seventeenth-century print, one often comes upon the title True Relation. Purportedly true relations describe monsters, miracles, disasters, crimes, trials, and apparitions.

