---
description: Why Tories give the British people what they do not want
---

# D725 The rise of unpopulism
1 Boris johnson’s attack had an **alliterative snap**. At the **despatch box**, the prime minister dismissed Sir Keir Starmer, Labour’s chief and a former **barrister**, as “a lawyer, not a leader”. The line had one flaw: beyond Westminster, lawyers are liked. No parent ever complained about a child becoming a **solicitor**. Indeed, voters prefer politicians to have been lawyers rather than journalists (like Mr Johnson) by three to one, according to YouGov. People who dislike lawyers include government ministers, who find their best ideas **squished** due to illegality, and divorced middle-aged men. Westminster has lots of both. And they presume that everyone else feels the same way.

> **Alliterative**：头韵体的
>
> **snap**：怼
>
> **despatch Box**：首相问答箱（Despatch Box，装有向首相提问的问题）
>
> **barrister**：大律师
>
> **solicitor**：初级律师
>
> **squish**：压扁
>

2 A misjudged attack line reveals a peculiar transformation in the Conservative Party. At the start of Mr Johnson’s tenure, it thrived with a **populist** message, pledging to implement the will of the people against the wishes of an **out-of-touch** elite. Now its mps project their own **neuroses**, fetishes and obsessions onto an imagined people. They **invoke** the will of the people to pursue policies that are, in fact, unpopular. mps **slate** footballers, fight culture wars and attempt to **thwart** green policies in the name of voters who prefer the opposite. Call it unpopulism.

> **populist**：平民主义的; 民粹主义的
>
> **out-of-touch**：失去联系；不来往的；与……脱节的，落伍的
>
> **neuroses/ njʊəˈrəʊsiːz /**：神经机能病; 神经官能症
>
> **invoke**：援引
>
> **slate**：严厉批评; 谴责
>
> **thwart**：阻挠
>

3 The first signs of unpopulism emerged during Britain’s departure from the European Union. Politicians **of all stripe**s argued over **minutiae** such as data-protection rules and **phytosanitary** standards. Beyond broad principles, few ordinary people cared. Yet in that debate, **proverbial** voters with a striking tendency to repeat mps’ own views on, say, membership of the customs union, kept **cropping up**. The general election in 2019 was won by the party that pledged to make the topic go away.

> **of all stripes**：各个领域的
>
> **minutiae /mɪˈnjuːʃɪˌiː/**：细枝末节; 琐事
>
> **phytosanitary/ ˌfaɪtəʊˈsænɪtərɪ /** ：植物检疫的
>
> **proverbial**：well known, especially so as to be stereotypical.
>
> **crop up**：意外出现; 突然发生
>

4 Confusion between correlation and causation embedded unpopulism in the Conservative Party. Mr Johnson remains in office because Tory mps think he has a unique ability to win over places that never voted Conservative before 2019. In fact, Mr Johnson’s personal ratings in these “red wall” seats were lower than Mrs May’s in 2017. Dislike of Jeremy Corbyn, Sir Keir’s far-left predecessor, rather than love of Mr Johnson handed the Conservatives victory. Mr Johnson stays in power despite **wretched** ratings thanks to the endurance of that myth. He owes his job to the will of Westminster, not the will of the people.

> **wretched**：讨厌的
>

5 What preoccupies Tory mps does not always preoccupy voters. The culture war is one example. In Parliament Jacob Rees-Mogg, the new minister for “Brexit opportunities”, **lamented** the “**charge** of the woke **brigade**”. Any voters who **chanced to be** listening might well have been confused. According to a poll by YouGov, 59% have no idea what “woke” means. Lee Anderson, an mp in Ashfield, a former mining **constituency**, boycotted the Euro 2020 championships in protest at England’s footballers taking the knee to protest against racism. It was a lonely boycott. Polls showed that about two-thirds of England fans supported the players.
Minister of State (Minister for Brexit Opportunities and Government Efficiency)

> **preoccupy**：占据 (某人的思绪)
>
> **lament**：感到悲痛; 感到遗憾; 感到失望，哀叹
>
> **charge**：冲锋
>
> **brigade**：派，帮
>
> **chanced to be**：碰巧
>
> **constituency**：选区
>

6 In general, mps still view Britons as liberty-lovers. There is a cross-party consensus against mandatory id cards. Britain is not a “papers, please” society, runs a **common refrain**. In fact, Britain is a “Papers? Please!” society: polls show overwhelming support for id cards. In the minds of Tory mps, liberty extends to the Englishman’s **inalienable** right to drive where he pleases. When local councils started to create low-traffic neighbourhoods during lockdown, those mps led the attack. But according to Opinium, a pollster, voters support low-traffic neighbourhoods by two to one.

> **inalienable**：不能转让的; 不可剥夺的
>
> **Common refrain**：常见说法
>

7 In other areas, unpopulism is just beginning. On environmental policy, increasing numbers of Conservative mps, such as Steve Baker, an influential **backbencher**, worry that attempts to reach “net zero” will go down badly with the red wall. A growing crowd of right-wing mps, columnists and think-tanks, such as Net Zero Watch, are pressing for a referendum on the topic. Yet support for green policies is roughly the same across the country. How to pay for them is a matter of debate, but there is near-universal agreement among voters about carbon neutrality as a target.

> **backbencher**：国会下议院普通成员
>
> **Red wall：红墙**（英语：Red Wall，又名**工党红墙**与**工党心脏地带**[1]）是在英国政治中描述在历史上经常支持工党的一些选区的一个术语，比如中英格兰，约克郡和北英格兰。这个术语由民意调查专家詹姆士·卡纳加苏里亚姆（James Kanagasooriam）于2019年创造。[2]
>
> 从之前的大选结果地图上看，工党获得的席位就像一面红色的墙（因为红色是工党代表色）。
>

8 Part of the cause of unpopulism is **anthropological**. After an electoral **realignment**, politicians do not necessarily understand their new voters. Tory ministers speak to their new voters like nervous British **holidaymakers** in a Spanish restaurant, loudly and slowly (“We…Would…Like…To…Level…You…Up”). The existence of a large, prosperous middle class outside the south-east is little understood in **sw1**. Instead, **caricatures** of the red wall are given **credence**: a land populated entirely by old, working-class men. It is much easier for politicians to project their own views onto voters than to learn what voters actually think.

> **Anthropological**：人类学的
>
> **realignment**： (公司、经济或体系)重组; 重新安排; 重新调整
>
> **holidaymaker**：度假者
>
> **level up**：使整齐；通过提高来达到相同水平
>
> **SW1**：a postcode district in the London SW postcode area，**SW**（西南）邮政编码区，也称为**伦敦**
>
> 西南邮区
>
> **caricature**：夸张的描述、漫画
>
> **credence**：信任
>

9 Unpopulism is to be expected when old methods of gauging public opinion have failed. Tabloids have become a poor guide. In the 1990s British newspapers sold almost 15m copies each day. Now they muster barely 3m between them. Their remaining readers are much older than the average Briton, with a worldview to match. That tabloids still hold any influence at all is due not to their connection with voters, but to their hold over the elite. Mr Johnson and his team **pore over** them daily. A front page may not be read by many, but will be covered by the bbc.

> **pore over/through**: 仔细研究
>
> **Vox unpopuli**
>

10 Unpopulism can play out one of two ways. Either its **exponents** continue to obsess over their own interests, rather than voters’—that is, until they are removed from office. Or it can lead to surprising, spectacular electoral success. What is unpopular today can be popular tomorrow. Brexit was once an eccentric hobby of a few Euro phobic Tories, who campaigned for decades in the name of the **common man**. Eventually, the common man caught up. The rewards were enormous—for Brexit’s **proponents**, if not for the country. So the unpopulists will keep going in the hope that another such **wild card** comes up trumps, whether an end to net zero or the **waging** of a culture war. Unpopulism is here to stay.

> **vox populi**：民众之声; 民众舆论
>
> **exponent**：拥护者
>
> **common man**：平民
>
> **Wild card**：未知因素
>
> **proponent**：(某观念或行为的) 支持者
>
> **wage**：发动 (运动或战争)
>

