# D429 Huawei and other non-carmakers invade Auto Shanghai
1 **Petrolheads** descended on China’s largest exhibition complex on April 21st for the opening of Auto Shanghai, the first big global car show since the start of the pandemic. Dozens of typical exhibitors, from Cadillac to Kia, **flaunted** their latest models to China’s **burgeoning** consumer class. Yet the most popular booths, as judged by foot traffic, belonged to a clutch of Chinese companies with little carmaking experience: Huawei, a telecoms giant; dji, the world’s biggest drone-maker; and Evergrande, a property developer.

> **Petrolhead**: A person who is overly reliant on the use of their car, resisting any suggestion to use other means of transport.
>
> If you say that someone **flaunts** their possessions, abilities, or qualities, you mean that they display them in a very obvious way, especially in order to try to obtain other people's admiration. 炫耀
>
> If something **burgeons**, it grows or develops rapidly. 迅速生长
>


2 The newcomers aim to capitalise on China’s new thirst for electric vehicles (evs). Last year 1.3m of them were sold in the country, accounting for two-fifths of the global total, estimates Canalys, a research firm. As part of its anti-pollution drive, China’s government wants every other new car sold to be an ev by 2035.

3 Tech firms like Huawei and dji are betting that future evs will compete not so much on the “eye appeal” of their hardware as on the sophistication of their software. Fully autonomous vehicles, able to understand their surroundings, are the ultimate (if distant) goal. Conveniently, both Huawei and dji have developed advanced laser-based detection systems which, they reason, could easily be applied to passenger cars. China’s most popular search engine, Baidu, another **star turn,** unveiled its own radar self-driving technology.

> **star turn:** the person or act that gives the most heralded or impressive performance in a programme
>


4 Some of the firms are joining forces with conventional carmakers to get to market quickly—important in an industry where first-mover advantage matters, as Tesla has shown. Huawei is teaming up with Beijing-based baic Group to roll out its new luxury ev. Baidu recently entered into a “strategic partnership” with Geely, which owns Volvo among other brands, to mass-produce “intelligent” evs (which are short of full autonomy).

5 Other newcomers prefer to do things in-house. Evergrande is building its own ev factories. It aims, ambitiously, to compete with Mercedes-Benz, BMW, Audi and Tesla, says Dai Lei, an executive at the company. Xiaomi, a **purveyor** of smartphones that has given the Shanghai **jamboree** a miss, pledged last month to invest $10bn over ten years in its new ev business. Xiaomi gamely insists it has “distinct and unique advantages in manufacturing cars”, despite having no history of making them (and its planned investment being a fraction of what carmakers familiar with producing at scale, like Volkswagen, **are ploughing into** evs).

> **ploughing**:(especially of a vehicle) move in a fast and uncontrolled manner.
>
> 仅仅是大厂砸向ev的钱的一小部分
>
> A **jamboree** is a party, celebration, or other gathering where there are a large number of people and a lot of excitement, fun, and enjoyment. 欢乐的大型聚会
>
> If you say that money **is ploughed into** something such as a business or a service, you are emphasizing that the amount of money which is invested in it or spent on it in order to improve it is very large.
>
> A **plough** is a large farming tool with sharp blades that is pulled across the soil to turn it over, usually before seeds are planted. 犁
>


6 **Proponents** of do-it-yourself argue they can **recoup** initial **outlays** on new factories **down the line** by not having to share revenues with partners. They add that the incentives of established carmakers are not aligned with those of the newcomers; Geely’s own ev marque, called Zeekr, is on display at Auto Shanghai not far from Baidu’s booth. For all the talk about “win-win co-operation”, rivalry is likely to intensify.

> **Proponent**: 支持者；建议者
>
> If you **recoup** a sum of money that you have spent or lost, you get it back. 弥补; 收回
>
> **Outlay** is the amount of money that you have to spend in order to buy something or start a project. (必要的) 费用
>
> **down the line:** 完全地、彻底地
>


7 As the two approaches evolve, one thing looks certain: lots of **wannabe** ev-makers will struggle. Even if Auto Shanghai returns in future years, unlike many Western car shows killed off by the pandemic, plenty of the current edition’s **budding** exhibitors will not. ■

> If you call someone a **wannabe**, you are saying in an unkind way that they are trying very hard to be like another person or group of people. 效颦者
>
> If you describe someone as, for example, a **budding** businessman or a **budding** artist, you mean that they are starting to succeed or become interested in business or art. 崭露头角的
>


