---
description: The protagonist of Rick Gekoski’s novel faces a murder charge for helping his wife die
---

# DAY 148 When love means saying goodbye
1 The hero of Rick Gekoski’s debut novel at first seemed to be a misanthropic crank. James Darke, a retired English teacher, spent months at home wallowing in gloomy thoughts, replaying wistful memories and berating the cruel and idiotic ways of the world and his fellow man. When it emerged that Darke was broken by the loss of his wife, the story and its protagonist acquired heft. **A coming-of-old-age tale unfolded into a poignant yet hard-hitting meditation on grief, with a richly complex character at its centre.**

> **Darke** :Dr James Darke has expelled himself from the world. He writes compulsively in his 'coming of old age' journal; he eats little, drinks and smokes a lot; he tries to console himself with the wisdom of the great thinkers and poets, yet finds nothing but disappointment. But cracks of light start to appear in his carefully managed darkness - the tender, bruised filaments of love for his daughter and grandson. With scalding prose, ruthless intelligence and an unforgettably vivid protagonist, Darke confronts some of humanity's greatest and most uncomfortable questions about how we choose to live, and to die.
>
> **Darke Matter**: James Darke is dreading the first family Christmas without his wife Suzy. Engulfed by grief, his grudging preparations are interrupted by a persistent knock at the door. Questions about the circumstances of his wife's death force him to confront the outside world and what really happened to her.
>
> Isolated, angry and diminished, James soon faces a crisis both legal and psychological. It will test his resolve and threaten his freedom.
>
> Darke Matter is a brilliant, mordant examination of the nature and obligations of love. Both immensely sad and extremely funny, the story wrestles with one of the great moral issues of our time.
>
> The surprising sequel to Darke . . .
>

2 Three years on and Mr Gekoski has written a supremely accomplished tragicomic sequel. If “Darke” depicted a painful journey into the light, “Darke Matter” charts forward steps and glances back at the abyss, while exploring a murky moral issue. It is more ambitious than its predecessor, and the author pulls it off in style.

3 When the novel opens Darke is bracing himself for the first family Christmas without his wife, Suzy. He is no longer an “urban hermit” and has reconnected with his daughter, Lucy. But he is still angry, jaded and bereft, and reluctant to open his door. One day he gives in to insistent knocking and finds two police officers outside. Soon he is taken in for questioning about the circumstances of Suzy’s death.

4 Darke, it transpires, relieved his beloved wife’s suffering by administering “a fatal draught”. He has no regrets. In his view the terminally ill should be allowed to die with dignity: to have, as he puts it (quoting John Keats), an “easeful death”. When he is charged with murder he is compelled to overcome his “people-phobic” instincts to rally support and argue his case. But does he have the stomach to fight for his beliefs?

5 Once again, Mr Gekoski’s flawed and vividly drawn hero is the book’s driving force. Darke’s bilious temperament and no-nonsense attitude are a regular source of humour. His acerbic commentaries target Christmas trees, potted plants, parks, politicians, trains, infants and “that flatulent haggis Walter Scott”. The bravura set pieces include a poetry evening with “a bunch of superannuated, sofa-bound littérateurs”.

6 The only wrong note in Darke’s otherwise commanding voice is an occasional wordiness (“her liquacious, loquacious spirit”). But his heart is laid bare in his contemplation of the woman who still haunts him. It is good to have him back. ■

