# D341 The EU should stop ignoring the vaccine race to try and win it
1 “Copium” is the most useful recent addition to the political **lexicon**. The **portmanteau** of “cope” and “opium” is a metaphorical **opiate** that dulls the pain of defeat, according to Urban Dictionary, a useful guide to slang. In Europe a slow vaccine roll-out across the eu has left its leaders **huffing** gallons of the stuff. So far the eu, a club of mostly small rich countries, has vaccinated 1.4% of its population. By contrast Israel, a small rich country, has vaccinated a third of its population. Even Britain, whose health service is a **punchline** on the continent, has jabbed 7%. With nearly 5% of people vaccinated America, the uncaring antithesis to the eu’s self-image, has done better than anyone in the bloc.  【serendipity】

> N-COUNT可数名词A **lexicon** is an alphabetical list of the words in a language or the words associated with a particular subject. (某一语言或学科的)词汇表
>
> N[slang]名词the practice of inhaling toxic fumes from glue and other household products for their intoxicating effects 呼吸家用产品的有毒气味来振奋精神的做法
>
> N-COUNT可数名词The **punchline** of a joke or funny story is its last sentence or phrase, which makes it funny. 笑话或警句令人发笑的最后一行
>
> 相较于其他国家，欧盟的疫苗注射率超低，只有1.4%。其领导人只能借助opiate 缓解阵痛，被形容为copium。
>
> https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/copium
>
> 2 The copium comes in many forms. According to one ingenious argument, the eu vaccination scheme is not any slower than other rich Western countries, it simply set off later. Others suggest that regulators in the likes of Israel, America and Britain played loose with safety standards. The most **pernicious** argument, however, is that rolling out the vaccine is not a competition at all.【凉州】
>
> ADJ[正式]形容词If you describe something as **pernicious**, you mean that it is very harmful. 极为有害的
>
> Copium的产生有不同的原因。 1 欧盟疫苗开始的晚，速度并没有比其他富裕西方国家慢。2 欧盟疫苗标准高 3 开展疫苗在欧盟不能称之为竞争
>
> 3 After all, competition sits awkwardly with the eu. It was set up to stop destructive contests between governments. Mashing together the coal and steel resources of western Europe was designed to make war—the worst form of competition—impossible. Strict rules stop countries from propping up failing national champions and the outright **bungs** that are common among American states trying to attract new businesses. The logic of eu rules is to create a firm floor to stop countries from undermining each other.【凉州】
>
> N-COUNT可数名词A **bung** is a round piece of wood, cork, or rubber which you use to close the hole in a container such as a barrel or flask. 塞子
>
> **bung: a** **payment made to someone to persuade them to do something, usually something dishonest**:
>
> 欧盟的成立就是为了消除各政府间的破坏性竞争
>

4 It was in this spirit that the eu built its vaccination strategy. Rather than allow individual countries to **outbid** each other, vaccines would be bought collectively by the European Commission and then shared out equally, according to population. Otherwise, the contrast between Bavarian teenagers in nightclubs and Bulgarian grannies in **body bags** would have made the spring fight over medical equipment—when eu governments were reduced to grabbing from each other—look like a lover’s **tiff**. Countries going it alone again would have produced winners, but also losers, most likely in the eu’s poorer member states. Sometimes competition can be a bad thing.【Alex】

> V-T及物动词If you **outbid** someone, you offer more money than they do for something that you both want to buy. 出价高于…
>
> N-COUNT可数名词A **tiff** is a small unimportant quarrel, especially between two close friends or between people in a romantic relationship. (亲密朋友、情侣之间的)小争吵; 口角; 拌嘴
>
> body bags:带有拉链的装尸袋
>
> 按照这种逻辑，欧盟应该统一购买疫苗然后按人口数量平均分配。而不是各政府互相竞价争夺疫苗。
>

5 But a lack of competitive drive hurt the eu elsewhere. Regulatory slowness was painted as a virtue rather than vice. Part of the reason European regulators did not rush through approval was due to overblown concerns about Europe’s band of vaccine sceptics. Now several eu leaders led by Austria’s chancellor, Sebastian Kurz, are **heaping** pressure on the agency to hurry up and approve other vaccines. This has left the eu with the worst of both worlds, with a thorough process delaying arrival yet still being undermined by political interference. 【Gosto de min】

> 但缺乏竞争严重影响了欧盟的其他方面。 法规部门的低效率被装饰为美德。
>
> 6 Leaders are peculiarly relaxed that countries outside the eu are beating them at getting jabs into arms. Israel, runs one argument, is a special case. **Squint** at the statistics, however, and Israel becomes an archetypal eu member state. At 9m, its population is bang on the median for an eu country, as is its income per head. Yet many officials assume that Israel’s roll-out cannot be matched by countries of similar population and similar wealth. Israel may be better placed than, say, Austria, to fight a land war but there is no reason its health care cannot be matched. “There is this tendency to compare yourself with the worst,” complains one diplomat. In eu capitals there is no shame in losing to Israel as long as politicians can say they beat Belgium or Bulgaria.【可喜欢你啦】
>
> V-I不及物动词If you **squint** **at** something, you look at it with your eyes partly closed. 眯着眼看
>
> 领导们只和欧盟内部最差的比较，对于某些方面不如欧盟类似体量的经济体，毫无羞愧。
>
> 7 For a bloc with global **pretensions**, this attitude is depressing. Countries that have done well with covid-19 are most aware that the world is a competitive place. Israel is surrounded by countries that want to destroy it. Taiwan, Japan and South Korea have similarly tricky relationships with powerful neighbours. By contrast, governments in the eu outsource their existential worries. It is the eu’s job to devise collective solutions to how the continent deals with, say, China. Just as criticism about procurement of vaccines can be **offloaded**—at times unfairly—onto Brussels, so can any **holes** in the collective approach to Beijing.【虾搞搞】
>
> N-VAR[表不满]有变体名词If you say that someone has **pretensions**, you disapprove of them because they claim or pretend that they are more important than they really are. 做作
>
> V-T[英国英语]及物动词If you **offload** something that you do not want, you get rid of it by giving it or selling it to someone else. 清理; 转卖
>
> N-COUNT可数名词A **hole** **in** a law, theory, or argument is a fault or weakness that it has. (法律、理论、论点等的) 漏洞
>
> 新冠处理得好的国家都能很好的意识到这个世界充满竞争。 相反，欧盟各国出了问题都转移给组织。
>
> 8 Reluctance to compete goes deeper than the response to covid-19. Areas that are still competitive within the eu, such as corporation tax, are being squeezed towards standardisation. Ireland lures businesses with the promise of a 12.5% tax rate, less than half the German and French rates. For now, the commission is only examining ways of wiping out the most **egregious** uses of tax law (those companies paying far less than 12.5%). In the long term, though, this is just the beginning of an anti-competitive squeeze.【七月】
>
> ADJ[正式][usu ADJ n]形容词**Egregious** means very bad and offensive. 极坏的; 极恶劣的
>
> 除了新冠，欧盟内部其他仍有竞争的领域，例如企业税正在逐步的标准化（平等），开展反竞争之旅。
>

9 Calls for corporate “European champions” are growing, based on the **dubious** logic that if businesses have less competition at home, they can be stronger abroad. Chinese and American firms **bulk up** by growing inside large, competitive single markets. Yet in the eu, when it comes to services—about three-quarters of the eu’s economy—the single market barely exists. Where the competitive streak of European governments does come out is in their attempts to grab the levers of power, says Hans Kundnani of Chatham House, a think-tank in London. Once in command, they tilt the field in favour of their own industries and economies. European governments are most competitive when it comes to the prospect of reducing competition. 【Alex】

> ADJ形容词If you describe something as **dubious**, you mean that you do not consider it to be completely honest, safe, or reliable. 可疑的; 不太可靠的
>
> PHRASAL VERB动词词组If someone **bulks up** or if they **bulk up** their body, they put on weight in the form of extra muscle. 使变粗壮; 变粗壮
>
> 中美和欧盟的市场竞争逻辑不通。中美是在单一市场做大做强。欧盟几乎不存在单一市场。
>
> **10 A continent of cope**
>
> If the eu is to find its competitive spirit, then a vaccination race is the perfect place. The European Commission has set a goal of jabbing 70% of its adults by summer. There is time to catch up (especially as the pandemic has provided regular, brutal reversions to the mean, when high-flying outliers are brought to ground.) There is more at stake than health. If a group including some of the world’s most successful societies cannot vaccinate their populations swiftly, then any pretensions that the eu is a potential superpower look ridiculous. Put down the copium and put up a fight. 【Maturing】
>
> N-SING[also no det, N 'to' n]单数型名词A **reversion** **to** a previous state, system, or kind of behaviour is a change back to it. (以前的状态、制度或行为的)恢复; 回复
>

