---
description: brace for 为...做准备
---

# D289 Turkey recovers from one earthquake and braces for more
> Istanbul 是土耳其的一座城市，原来叫君士坦丁堡
 > 

1 NEAR ONE of Izmir’s main **thoroughfares**, **bulldozers** and **excavators** power through a vast heap of **rubble** and steel wire, the **ghastly** remains of an apartment block **levelled** by an earthquake that struck Turkey’s third-biggest city in late October. Movers **salvage** furniture and kitchen supplies from buildings awaiting demolition or on the **verge** of collapse, their **facades** covered with deep cracks. A few hundred metres away, outside a shelter for those made homeless by the disaster, Meryem, a divorced teacher, and her two children are packing their belongings onto a **pickup truck**. Her house survived, says Meryem, but suffered so much damage that she refuses to go back. “I would not wish this on anyone,” she says.

2 At least 116 people died in the magnitude 7.0 quake, including a woman who drowned in a minor **tsunami** set off by the **tremors**. Rescue teams poured in from all over the country. Thousands of people volunteered to give blood. Local businesses distributed food to the survivors. Nearly three days into the search effort, exhausted workers pulled a three-year-old girl from the rubble of her home. A day later, they rescued another **toddler**.

3 Crisscrossed by major **fault lines**, Turkey has seen four deadly earthquakes this year alone and 18 tremors measured at 7.0 or above in the past 120 years. Almost 60m people, or 70% of the population, live in **seismic** zones. Yet disaster response is no longer a serious problem in Turkey. Preparedness is. Out of a total of about 10m buildings, 20-25% do not meet current standards for earthquake protection, says Mustafa Erdik, head of the Turkish Earthquake Foundation. Others put the figure even higher.

> 土耳其位于地震带。灾后援救已经做得很好了，但地震预防还不太行
>

4 The risk is especially **acute** in Istanbul, home to over 15m people. Nearly 70% of the city’s housing stock dates from before 2000. Two decades ago, a 7.6 magnitude earthquake killed at least 17,000 people. Scientists agree that another big one is a matter of time. Some put the probability at up to 40% over the next 30 years. According to a recent study by the local planning agency, another earthquake of similar magnitude would destroy 48,000 buildings, damage 194,000 and cause 120bn lira ($15bn) in damages. Since Istanbul accounts for a third of Turkey’s GDP, the long-term economic damage could be severe.

5 Turkey’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and his government have taken steps to lessen the impact of future quakes. Over 500,000 vulnerable buildings have been demolished and replaced since the launch of an “urban renewal” programme in 2012. Under a scheme partly financed by the World Bank, the government has earthquake-proofed more than 1,200 schools and hospitals in Istanbul. **A slew of** recent infrastructure projects, including a new bridge over the Bosporus and an undersea tunnel, have been designed to withstand big quakes. Over 56% of Turkish homeowners have taken out earthquake insurance, one of the highest rates in the world, and up from 26% a decade ago.

6 But Turkey seems to have taken a step back for every step forward. Critics say **urban renewal** has enriched companies close to the government, overlooked environmental concerns and triggered a wave of **evictions**. “This was a very good programme,” says Naci Gorur, a geologist at Istanbul Technical University. “But they handed it to the developers, who prioritised those neighbourhoods where they could make the most profit.” The construction **frenzy** that propelled Turkey’s economy under Mr Erdogan has swallowed up open spaces and parks. Of the 470 assembly areas designated in Istanbul after the 1999 quake, only 77 remain, according to the mayor, Ekrem Imamoglu. Ahead of an election two years ago, the government announced an **amnesty** on unlicensed construction. The scheme benefitted the owners of over 7m properties across Turkey. One of these was an apartment building in Istanbul that collapsed on its own early last year, killing 21 people. Three of its eight floors had been illegally built. ■
An **assembly area** may be any space or room that allows individuals to gather for social, recreational, educational, civic or amusement purposes .

