# D279+280 Jonathan Sacks died on November 7th
> N-COUNT/N-TITLEA **rabbi** is a Jewish religious leader, usually one who is in charge of a synagogue, one who is qualified to teach Judaism, or one who is an expert on Jewish law. 拉比 (犹太宗教领袖，尤指有资格传授犹太教义，或精于犹太法典之犹太教堂主管)
 > 

1 Every morning he could, Jonathan Sacks pulled on his tracksuit and went out jogging. He was **not** called the “rapid rabbi” f**or nothing**. Jogging, as his desk-sign reminded him, led to positive thinking. And, thanks to his noise-cancelling earphones, it brought him peace. He heard nothing as he ran but Schubert, Beethoven, or whoever it might be. Those same earphones—one of the best purchases he had ever made—also enabled him when he meditated to hear the music of creation, the quiet voice of wisdom within it, and his response, from his spontaneous waking “Modeh Ani”, “I give thanks ”, onwards.
**Modeh Ani** (Hebrew: מודה אני; "I give thanks") is a Jewish prayer that observant Jews recite daily upon waking, while still in bed.

> 从他下意识在Modeh Ani中醒来开始（类似于all day）
>

2 Otherwise, the noise was hard to lose. Every year the voices became more strident and extreme. Consumerism cried “I want! I want!” Individualism cried “Me! Me! My choices, my feelings!” until even the iPhone and iPad he used all the time **vexed** him with their “I, I, I”. Society had become a **cacophony** of competing claims. The world gave every sign of falling apart. Even religion, his business, could be a megaphone of hate. He never felt that more strongly than when he stood in January 2002 at Ground Zero in Manhattan, with the ground still smoking round him.

> V-T及物动词If someone or something **vexes** you, they make you feel annoyed, puzzled, and frustrated. 使烦恼; 使迷惑; 使沮丧
>
> N-COUNT[usu sing, usu N 'of' n]可数名词You can describe a loud, unpleasant mixture of sounds as a **cacophony**. 刺耳的声音
>
> N-UNCOUNT[美国英语]不可数名词People sometimes use **ground zero** to refer to the site of a disaster such as a nuclear explosion. However, it is used especially in relation to the destruction of the World Trade Center in New York on September 11, 2001. 核爆点; 也指在9.11恐怖袭击中被毁的世贸中心
>
> Otherwise是指另一方面。第一段noise更多指的物理世界的噪音，第二段指现实生活中人们的喧嚣
>

3 His answer, as the leader of the Orthodox Jews of Britain and also as a moral philosopher, was to raise his own voice. Over his term of office, from 1991 to 2013, he became famous both outside Judaism and outside Britain for his speeches, his lectures (including **stints** at New York University and Yeshiva University), his three dozen books and his three-minute **sermons** on bbc Radio 4’s early-morning “Thought for the Day”. A rabbi was, after all, a teacher. He was a clear, kind one, still with a touch of **East End** about him—his father had sold shmatters, clothes, in Petticoat Lane, and when he was made a peer in 2009 he took the title “Baron Aldgate”. But he was also firm, even stern. He wanted to leave his mostly **secular** listeners in no doubt that things were good or evil, true or false, absolutely, and that moral relativism was the **scourge** of the age.

> N-COUNT可数名词A **sermon** is a talk on a religious or moral subject that is given by a member of the clergy as part of a church service. 布道; 讲道
>
> East End：东伦敦
>
> peer： N名词a member of a nobility; nobleman 贵族
>
> N-COUNT[oft N 'of' n]可数名词A **scourge** is something that causes a lot of trouble or suffering to a group of people. 灾难
>

4 Judaism, as he pointed out, often provided **antidotes to** the chaos. The Torah, God’s will revealed in words, was an algorithm that gave discipline to life. Keeping **Shabbat** was an ideal way to achieve work-life balance. The festivals and High Holy Days reminded Jews of their shared traditions and history: the “we”, not the “I”. Above all, out of the suffering endured by Jews for centuries, Judaism had distilled hope. Every crisis gave birth to opportunity. The world could be changed not by force, but by ideas.

> N-COUNT可数名词Something that is an **antidote** **to** a difficult or unpleasant situation helps you to overcome the situation. 克服…的良方
>
> 安息日（Sabbath）是犹太传统的日子，是一家人共聚天伦的神圣时刻，其次也是祈祷和读经的时候。
>
> High Holy Days 崇圣日 (High Holy Days) 是在九月或十月，此节期被视为犹太历书上最严肃的节期，主要的内容是赎罪，这期间包括犹太新年和赎罪日。
>

5 Unhappily, though, much of the **raucousness** that dogged him came from Jews themselves. Though non-Jews saw him as the spokesman for all the Jews of Britain, officially he was the leader of only an Orthodox minority, the United Hebrew Congregations of the Commonwealth. A much larger number, Reform and Liberal and ultra-Orthodox, or Haredi, were outside his **purview**, but still looked to him. Pleasing everyone was impossible. His intellectual instincts, **honed** at Church of England schools and Cambridge rather than religious shuls, were on the liberal side, and in that spirit he made services more lively and revised the daily prayer book, translating the Hebrew from scratch. But in practice it was the Haredi he found himself **placating** most: avoiding gay groups, doing little to advance the role of women, and—his most regrettable mistake—refusing to attend the funeral of a much-loved Reform rabbi, Hugo Gryn, and calling him a destroyer of the faith. “A great chief rabbi—to the Gentiles,” a fair number said, noting his easier mixing with prime ministers and royals. The Haredi, not won over, called him “Boychik”, wet behind the ears.

> look to:尊敬
>
> wet behind the ears 乳臭未干的；少不更事的；初出茅庐的
>
> Gentiles: 外邦人，异教徒，非犹太人
>
> win over: 说服，争取过来，买账
>
> shul:  N-COUNT/N-IN-NAMES A synagogue is a building where Jewish people meet to worship or to study their religion. 犹太教堂
>
> 他的智识直觉是在英国国教学校和剑桥磨砺的，而不是犹太教教会堂。这种智识直觉让他更开明。所以他能提供更别开生面的服务，从希伯来文重新翻译，修改每日祷告词。（重新翻译是因为不相信前人。）
>

6 Perhaps he was. He never set out to be a rabbi; the **impulse** had grown very slowly, from that first sense of the mystery of God, when he was two or three, in the sadness of the music at his grandfather’s tiny **synagogue** in Finchley. He did not even feel especially Jewish until, at Cambridge, the Six-Day War of 1967 suddenly fuelled a lifelong attachment to Israel. He spent the next summer criss-crossing America on a Greyhound bus to look for rabbis, and Menachem Mendel Schneerson in Brooklyn, then the Lubavitcher rebbe, was the first to suggest he might be one himself and train others. Still he **wavered**, wondering about accountancy. In the end, in the mid-1970s, it was a voice in his head that made him say—as **Abraham**, ordered to sacrifice his son Isaac, had said three times to God—“Hineni”, “Here I am.”

> Six-Day War: a war fought in the Middle East in June 1967, lasting six days. In it Israel defeated Egypt, Jordan, and Syria, occupying the Gaza Strip, the Sinai, Jerusalem, the West Bank of the Jordan, and the Golan Heights 六日战争; 1967年6月发生于中东，以色列打败了埃及、约旦、叙利亚并占领了加沙地带、西奈、耶路撒冷、约旦高地与戈兰高地
>
> N-VAR有变体名词If you have an **attachment** **to** someone or something, you are fond of them or loyal to them. 爱慕; 忠诚
>
> N[Old Testament]名词the first of the patriarchs, the father of Isaac and the founder of the Hebrew people (Genesis 11–25) 亚伯拉罕; 希伯来民族的创始人
>

7 The task of uniting his co-religionists **paled**, of course, beside the collapse of society, but this too he had to address. Every man and woman had a duty to care for others, and thus to recreate the bonds that held society together. “I” had to give way to “we”. Out of great crises—climate change, coronavirus—that chance might come. Ideally religion could drive this change, with the world ’s faiths uniting, as they had done, **imams** and **gurus**, priests and rabbis, at Ground Zero that day. But his argument in “The Dignity of Difference” that all the major religions were equally valid ways to truth had caused even more trouble with the Haredi. Instead, in his last book, he called for a shared morality: agreed norms of behaviour, mutual trust, **altruism**, and a sense of “all-of-us-together”. The liberty craved by “me” could be sustained only by “us”.

> V-I不及物动词If one thing **pales** in comparison with another, it is made to seem much less important, serious, or good by it. 显得逊色; 相形见绌
>

8 It was a very long shot, but he was not a pessimist. Part of his job was to cheer people up, and he liked to wear a yellow tie, like sunshine, for his public lectures. If he felt depressed, music soon lifted him out of it. So, too, did his studies. If he was **stranded** on a desert island, he told a bbc interviewer, he hoped it could be with all 20 volumes of the **Talmud** and plenty of pencils, in order to write commentaries in the margins. Meanwhile, thinking and writing in his garden study in Golders Green, with or without his invaluable earphones, he could escape the shouting world a little.

> PHRASE习语If you describe something as **a** **long shot**, you mean that it is unlikely to succeed, but is worth trying. 胜算不大的尝试
>

9 On a visit he made once to Auschwitz, as he wept and asked, like so many others, where God had been in the Holocaust, he seemed to hear an answer: “I was in the words.” The words were “You shall not murder.” If human beings refused to listen to God, even He was helpless. But if much of the noise that humans made could be cancelled out, they might more often hear what He was saying.■

> cancel out:相互抵消
>

