---
description: Why there won’t be a rerun of the dotcom crash
---

# D868 Venture capital’s reckoning
> dotcom:网络公司
 > 

1. The venture-capital bull run of the past two decades transformed what was once a **cottage industry** in Silicon Valley into a huge machine for building globally dominant companies. Over $600bn of venture funds were invested worldwide last year, nearly ten times the level a decade ago. Venture capital (vc) spread into new sectors, drew in new participants and became more global. Valuations rocketed as a sense took hold that the good times would never end.

> A **cottage** is a small house, usually in the country. 村舍
>
> A **cottage industry** is a small business that is run from someone's home, especially one that involves a craft such as knitting or pottery. 家庭手工业
>

2 Now the war in Ukraine, China’s purging of its tech industry and rising interest rates mean capitalism’s moon-shot machine is **earthbound**. Public markets were the first to be hit. The nasdaq index, which is weighted towards technology companies, has fallen by nearly 30% so far this year in a **gruesome** reckoning. The amount of capital raised through initial public offerings so far in 2022 is down by about 50% globally and by more than 70% in America compared with the same period last year.

> earthbound:不能飞的; 地面上的
>
> gruesome:令人毛骨悚然
>

3 The public-market **bloodbath** is inevitably hurting the vc world. Losses in end-investors’ public portfolios put pressure on their private ones. Pension funds and **endowments** that committed large amounts of “**dry powder**” to private markets are trying to preserve cash by asking vcs to slow their pace of investing. Because there are more **crossover funds**, such as Tiger Global Management, which invest in several corners of the capital markets, the connection between public and private valuations has strengthened. Global investments made by vc funds in startups in May were worth $39bn, about 30% less than the monthly average for 2021. Already, 68% of vc funds are reporting markdowns of valuations in their portfolios.

> If you describe an event as a **bloodbath**, you are emphasizing that a lot of people were killed very violently. 大屠杀; 血洗
>
> An **endowment** is a gift of money that is made to an institution or community in order to provide it with an annual income. 捐赠基金
>
> Dry powder: is a slang term referring to marketable securities that are highly liquid and considered cash-like 投资储备金
>
> Crossover fund: 交叉投资基金:同时投资上市及非上市股票的投资基金
>

4 Startups that rely on vc cash are, unsurprisingly, feeling the pain. **Fledgling** firms with little cash saved, especially in competitive sectors such as food delivery, will **fare** worst. And after a long boom, expect some **dubious** behaviour to be revealed. One concern is how interlinked tech firms might be. Some apparently profitable startups are earning money by providing services, from digital marketing to cloud computing, to other startups that are losing money and that in turn rely on endless blank cheques from their vc sponsors.

> Fledgling:初出茅庐
>
> dubious:可疑
>

5 **Pessimists** note that vc slumps take years to **bottom out**. Downturns caused by inflation and an oil shock meant the amount of money flowing into vc funds fell by 94% between 1969 and 1975. After the peak of the dotcom bubble, the rate at which vc funds deployed capital fell for more than two years.

> Pessimists:悲观主义者
>
> **Bottom out:** to reach the lowest point and level out 达到最低点并持平
>

6 Yet despite all this, the correction will not be as bad as the crash of 2000-01. For one thing, plenty of startups have built up **war chests** and so have healthy balance-sheets. Assuming a typical **cash-burn rate**, all but three of the 70-odd biggest software startups have raised enough funds to last until 2025.

> war chests : ,专用款项；专款,战争基金
>
> **cash-burn rate**:烧钱率，与“BurnRate”同义，指新公司尚未实现经营现金净流入之前，消耗其现金或风险资本的速度，通常以每月所消耗的金额来量度。
>

7 The vc industry is more **institutionalised**, too. Self-sustaining vc networks from Europe to Asia are less dependent on **flighty** American capital and have enduring links to local financial firms and entrepreneurs. End-investors such as pension funds and **endowments** have experienced enough of tech’s transformative effect on the economy to know not to run away.

> **institutionalised**: 约定俗成的；成惯例的；制度化的
>
> **flighty**: 反复无常的；不稳定的
>
> endowments:捐赠
>

8 Most important, the opportunity for innovation remains vast. The potential market for technology products has expanded hugely, beyond the **bastions** of business and consumer computing, to affect all parts of the business world, from biotech to supply-chain monitoring. What emerges from the chaos will be a leaner and more efficient industry—and one that will remain a powerful force.

> bastions:堡垒
>
> Consumer Computing is a novel consumer oriented methodology for development of component based applications.
>

