---
description: The Chinese agronomist who revolutionised rice production was 90
---

# D465 Yuan Longping died on May 22nd
> **agronomist**: 农学家
 > 

1 He was wandering in a ricefield of dreams. The plants were tall as sorghum, taller than a man. Their panicles hung full as brooms, and each grain was as big as a peanut. After walking a while he lay down in the leaf-shade with a friend, quite hidden. A rest was a good idea, because the wonder-plants went on and on. In fact, they covered the world.

> **sorghum**：高粱
>
> **panicle**： (出现在草里的)复总状花序
>

2 Then Yuan Longping woke up, laughing. The rice plants he had tended for decades at Anjiang and then Changsha in Hunan province, sowing and nurturing them, visiting daily on his motorbike to inspect them, were not quite there yet. But they still deserved their name of super rice. The leaves were straighter and taller than ordinary, and the grains plumper. They had all the vigour of the wild strain that he and his team had found, after much searching, beside a railway line in Hainan in 1970 and had cross-bred, over careful years, with the domesticated variety. Sceptics told him he was wasting his time, since rice was a self-pollinator. He believed that cross-breeding was universal and, besides, that it always made the offspring stronger.

> **sow**：播种
>
> **wild strain**：野生株
>
> **self-pollinator**：自花传粉
>

3 The figures spoke for themselves. With his new hybrid rice the annual yield was 20-30% higher. This meant that at least 60m more people could be fed every year. In Yunnan province more than 17,000 kilograms had been produced per hectare. China’s rice crop had risen from 57m tonnes in 1950 to 195m in 2017; from food deficiency, to food security. Higher rice-yields allowed farmers to turn more land to other uses—fruit, vegetables, fishponds—so that people not only ate more, but ate well. And this message was for the world, as well as China. Once his rice grew well, he sent seeds to the International Rice Research Institute in the Philippines. Then he travelled widely, all across Asia and to Africa and America, as well as inviting foreign students to the Hunan Hybrid Rice Research Centre in Changsha to instruct them. A fifth of all rice grown globally now comes from hybrids that were his.

> **hectare**：公顷
>

4 For this he won the Medal of the Republic, China’s highest, and the World Food Prize. An asteroid was named after him. There was talk of the Nobel, too. All that seemed just smoke to him. Though he was rich, from his shares in a seed company that used his name, he looked like a peasant, wiry as a twig, with his face leathered by sun and his big hands rough from “playing in the mud” all day. He was far happier in his short-sleeved work-shirts, out in his rice, or stripped off swimming in any wild river he could find, than in a tang suit in some conference hall. At social gatherings, he would offer round the first cigarettes and the nimblest jokes. When he lost at mahjong, no one was more delighted to pay the penalty of creeping through under the table.

> **wiry**： (人) 瘦而结实的
>
> **twig**：细枝
>
> **leather**：to cover with leather
>
> **tang suit**: 唐装
>
> **nimble**：敏捷灵巧的
>

5 Why he had become an agronomist was tricky to explain. His mother, whom he adored, did not want him to do it. He was a city boy anyway, born in Beijing, though he enjoyed the countryside and the thought of growing luscious things, like the grapes Charlie Chaplin could pick at his kitchen door in “Modern Times”. As he made his way to the Anjiang agricultural school, in a charcoal-fuelled bus struggling through the mountains, he had doubts himself. What settled his vocation was famine.

> **Luscious**：美味多汁的
>
> **famine**：饥荒
>

6 In 1949, at the founding of Communist China, he had first met hunger on the roads. Between 1959 and 1961, in Mao Zedong’s Great Leap Forward to collectivise farming, he saw country people falling down dying in the fields. They had been driven to eating tree-bark, fern-roots, even white clay. At the college, too, there was so little to eat that he barely had energy to dig. He dreamed of bowls of steamed fat pork, but woke to chew on rice bran. From that point his mission was to make sure people were fed.

> **collectivise farming**：集体耕作
>
> **fern-root**：蕨根粉
>
> **rice bran**：米糠
>

7 Before the famine he had worked on grafting, because that was the Soviet model and Mao’s command. Crossbreeding of plants was forbidden and genes, ludicrously, were dismissed as “metaphysical”. So he grafted moonflowers on sweet potatoes, tomatoes on potatoes and a watermelon on a pumpkin (grotesque fruit, indescribable taste!), but found that any inherited traits vanished in the second generation. Secretly then he read Gregor Mendel on plant genetics, hiding him under the People’s Daily, and after 1960 he turned his full attention to China’s staple, rice.

> **grafting**：嫁接法
>
> **ludicrously**：荒谬地
>
> **metaphysical**：形而上学，超自然
>
> **moonflower**：月光花
>
> **grotesque** ：荒唐的
>
> **staple**：主食
>

8 He loved it in any case. As a boy he was enraptured by the deliciousness of xiaozhan rice from Tianjin, said to be the best in China. Around Anjiang, what the peasants wanted was quantity: miracle-yields from their fields. They would cross the mountains to get better seeds, so he did the same, traipsing round China to find the strong wild male-sterile plants he needed. Once he found them, in that unlikely spot in Hainan, it took three years to perfect the hybridising and another three to get his super rice into commercial production. Then, in a steep curve, yields soared away.

> **enraptured**：使着迷; 使陶醉
>
> **traipse around**：漫步
>
> **male-sterile**：雄性不育
>

9 The Communist Party applauded him, but he never joined. He worried that, not understanding politics, he might say the wrong thing. In the Mao years at Anjiang he left indoctrination to other teachers, while he taught sports and how to sing Russian songs. The only concession he made to the Cultural Revolution was to give up his precious, then “decadent”, violin. Party officials called him “Comrade”, but he was no comrade of theirs, only of his agronomist colleagues and, he hoped, all hungry people. For their sake he kept on working to make rice better: salt-tolerant to grow by the coast, cross-bred with maize to be more nutritious, enriched with Vitamin a to improve people’s eyes. He fizzed with the thought that if just half of the 160m hectares of ricefields in the world were planted with his hybrid rice, an increase in yield of two tonnes per hectare would feed 500m more people every year. And he still talked, impishly, of plants taller than a man.

> **indoctrination**：教化、教导
>
> **concession**：让步
>
> **decadent**：堕落的
>
> **salt-tolerant**：耐盐的
>
> **fizz**：滋滋冒泡
>
> '**impishly**：顽皮地
>

10 Outside the funeral home in Changsha on the day after his death, crowds came to lay a mountain of yellow and white chrysanthemums. Several of the mourners said that whenever they sat down to a meal, or merely smelled the fragrance of rice, they would remember “Grandfather Yuan”. Among the flowers were the traditional bowls of boiled rice, super-food for his journey.

> **chrysanthemum**：菊花
>

