---
description: How Hunter S. Thompson’s drug-fuelled bender became a cult novel
---

# D544 “Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas” still bites, 50 years on
> **bender**: 饮酒作乐
 > 

1 When hunter s. thompson left Los Angeles for Las Vegas in 1971, **in the company of** Oscar Acosta, a Mexican-American lawyer and Chicano activist, he did not mean to write a cult novel. Thompson was working on a piece about Ruben Salazar, a Mexican-American journalist killed the previous year by a **tear-gas canister** fired by police during a march against the Vietnam war. Acosta, his main source, was worried about being seen with a white writer—but agreed to go with Thompson to Las Vegas, where he was due to produce the **captions** for a series of photographs of the Mint 400 off-road desert race. The **roman à clef** that arose from the trip, published in two parts in Rolling Stone that autumn, was an elusive blend of fact and fiction, observation and exaggeration.

> **in the company of**：陪伴
>
> **tear-gas** **canister** ：催泪瓦斯罐
>
> **caption**： (图片或卡通的) 说明文字
>
> **roman à clef**：隐匿真实姓名的)纪实小说
>

2 “Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas: A Savage Journey to the Heart of the American Dream” turns 50 this year. Its **vitriol** has lost none of its satirical bite. The story begins with Raoul Duke—the **pseudonym** that Thompson, who died in 2005, assigned himself as the deeply unreliable narrator—and Dr Gonzo, his lawyer, hallucinating on the highway as they speed towards Las Vegas. Driving a rented Chevy **convertible** that they call the Great Red Shark, they are armed with “two bags of grass, 75 **pellets** of **mescaline**, five sheets of high-powered **blotter acid**, a salt shaker half full of cocaine and a whole galaxy of multicoloured **uppers, downers**, **screamers, laughers”**; also “a quart of tequila, a quart of rum, a case of **Budweiser**, a pint of raw **ether** and two dozen **amyls**”.

> **grass**: marijuana， pot，weed，cannbis
>
> **vitriol**：刻薄的话
>
> **pseudonym** ：假名; 笔名
>
> **convertible**：敞篷车
>
> **pellet**：小团; 丸
>
> **mescaline**：三甲氧苯乙胺; 又名“麦斯卡林”（迷幻药）
>
> **blotter acid**：邮票（新型毒品，lsd）
>
> **uppers**：安非他命
>
> **downers**：巴比妥类（镇定剂）
>
> **screamers, laughers**：？
>
> **Budweiser**：百威
>
> **ether**：乙醚
>
> **amyls**：戊基？
>
> LSD： 简称LSD，是一种强烈的半人工致幻剂。LSD的一次典型剂量只有100微克，仅相当于一粒沙子重量的十分之一。LSD能造成使用者4到12小时的感官、感觉、记忆和自我意识的强烈化与变化，可作化学武器使用。
>
> https://www.zhihu.com/question/64924752
>

3 On the surface, the novel is about the consumption of this arsenal of mind-altering substances and the visions and paranoia, vomiting and violence that ensue. The duo attend the Mint 400 but soon embark on a two-day **bender** amid the **glitzy** decadence of Vegas casinos, destroying their hotel room and running up a huge bill they have no intention of paying. They flee the city before the damage is discovered, but return almost immediately to cover the National District Attorneys’ Conference on Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs. Grasping that the many cops in attendance don’t have a clue what they are talking about, they again abandon their assignment and spend a few days in the grip of “**amphetamine psychosis**”, **trawling** late-night diners and taco stands in search of the American dream, “burning the locals, abusing the tourists, terrifying the help”.

> **glitzy**：浮华的
>
> **amphetamine**：苯丙胺，安非他命
>
> **psychosis**：精神错乱
>
> **trawl**：搜索
>

4 Reviews were mixed when the novel appeared as a single volume in 1972 (“more hype than book”, sniffed the New Republic). But it subsequently achieved cult status, boosted by a film adaptation in 1998. Its appeal rests less on the **depraved antics** of the main characters than on their encounters with other people, and its bleakly humorous dissection of the American psyche.

> **depraved**：堕落的
>
> **antics** ：滑稽反常的举止
>
> **atavistic** ：原始的(感觉或行为)
>
> **throes**： (尤指最后阶段的)困境; 痛苦
>
> **counterculture** ：反主流文化
>
> **mean**：残酷
>
> **cameo**：精彩片段; 小品
>
> **repellent**：令人厌恶的
>
> **illustrations**: [印刷] 插图；插画
>


6 Half a century on, Thompson’s themes of capitalism and greed, racial tension and the inadequacies of traditional journalism still resonate. Nixon is long gone but in the bumpy wake of Donald Trump’s presidency—a period of government-led anti-immigrant and anti-media sentiment, Black Lives Matter protests triggered by police brutality, white-supremacist riots and the shadow of **impeachment**—Thompson’s “gross, physical salute to the fantastic possibilities of life in this country” feels unsettlingly contemporary.

> **impeachment**：弹劾; 控告
>
> **Unsettlingly**: 令人不安地
>

7 To protect the identity of Acosta (who was to disappear in Mexico in 1974), he is characterised as a 300-pound **Samoan**. But, at a time when Thompson was reporting on Mexican-American activism—and what he deemed an attempted cover-up of Salazar’s murder—the narrator repeatedly draws attention to Dr Gonzo’s race. “You Samoans are all the same…You have no faith in the essential decency of the white man’s culture,” he **opines**, before telling a terrified hitchhiker they pick up in the desert that “in spite of his race, this man is extremely valuable to me”. At the **narcotics** conference, a disturbance in the crowd is presumed to be “a racial conflict of some kind, something that couldn’t be helped”.

> **Samoan[səˈmoʊən]**：萨摩亚人
>
> **opine**：认为; 发表意见
>
> **narcotics**：麻醉剂; 毒品
>
> **couldn’t be helped**：with something (usually something unpleasant) that could not be avoided
>

8 Besides race, the novel’s main **preoccupation** is the failure of journalism in an era when the president openly loathed the press. “Objective journalism is one of the main reasons American politics has been allowed to be so corrupt for so long. You can’t be objective about Nixon,” Thompson once told the Atlantic. In his most paranoid and **introspective** moments, the narrator of “Fear and Loathing” turns to news stories so grim that they render his own sins “pale and meaningless” in comparison. He reads about the police attacking anti-war demonstrators, torture by the armed forces, mass murder and drug deaths; he watches “Pentagon generals babbling insane lies” on television.

> **preoccupation**：关注
>
> **introspective**：反省的; 内省的
>

9 Every **depredation** is reported without context, every suggestion of responsibility **rebuffed** by officials with a **mantra** of “No comment”. Even the **sensational** is heart-sinkingly superficial. Towards the end, the narrator spells out his disillusionment. “Why bother with newspapers, if this is all they offer?” he rages. “Journalism is not a profession or a trade. It is a cheap **catch-all** for fuckoffs and misfits.”

> **depredation**：掠夺; 破坏
>
> **rebuff**：拒绝
>
> **mantra**：准则、 (佛教和印度教中的) 祷语
>
> **sensational** ：戏剧性的; 轰动性的
>
> **catch-all**：术语; 笼统语
>

10 Thompson claimed that “**gonzo**” journalism—a personal, **scabrous**, **avowedly** subjective style which he pioneered—was inspired by William Faulkner’distortionss view that “the best fiction is far more true than any kind of journalism”. Fifty years after its publication, and despite its many distortions, “Fear and Loathing” retains its own twisted kind of truth. ■

> **gonzo**：狂野的; 疯狂的
>
> **scabrous**：粗糙的；难解决的；猥亵的；淫秽的
>
> **avowedly** ：公然地
>

