---
description: How America and its allies should respond to China’s search for foreign outposts
---

# D810 Cover your bases
> **outpost**: 前哨（基地）a small military camp away from the main army, used for watching an enemy's movements.
 > 

1.The united states maintains hundreds of military bases in at least 45 countries. Britain runs plenty of outposts overseas. French forces are stationed from **Ivory Coast** to **New Caledonia**. Even tiny Singapore has training camps abroad. But five years after it opened—to the alarm of Western officials—China’s naval base in **Djibouti**, on the Horn of Africa, remains its only military **bastion** beyond its borders.

> **Ivory Coast**: 科特迪瓦
>
> **New Caledonia**: 新喀里多尼亚(岛)
>
> **Djibouti**: 吉布提,一个非洲共和国
>
> **bastion **: 堡垒；捍卫者；防御工事
>

2.China wants to change that. Over the past two decades it has **amass**ed more ships than America’s navy has in total. Lately it has increased efforts to find foreign **berth**s for them. It is thought to have approached at least five potential host countries. A deal with the Solomon Islands, signed in April, has raised fears that China may establish a military **foothold** there (see China section). And it has deepened concerns that, one day, China will challenge American naval dominance in the Pacific.

> **amass**:（尤指大量）积累
>
> **berth**:停泊;泊位；锚地
>
> **foothold** ：立足点/处
>

3.China calls America “imperialist” for keeping foreign bases, while insisting that its own military expansion is peaceful, nothing to worry about and only natural for a rising power. It is surrounded by unfriendly island chains and narrow straits. Most of its trade in goods moves by sea. It is only **prudent** for China to seek friendly ports abroad, its officials say. It needs a navy equal to the task of defending its overseas investments,shipping routes and citizens who live or work abroad.

> **prudent**: 慎重的；精明的
>

4.The neighbours are not convinced. China has built **landing strip**s and missile batteries to assert its claims to disputed **reef**s in the South China Sea. It reserves the right to seize the democratic island of Taiwan by force. Its open ambition to control more territory than it currently does suggests a darker side to this maritime diplomacy. Its goal in Asia is a continent made up of individual countries that **genuflect** to the regional giant. It wants America out of its backyard, and an end to American ­led alliances (see Chaguan).

> **landing strip**: (飞机场的)起落跑道；可着陆地区
>
> **missile battery**: 导弹炮塔
>
> **reef**：n.礁；礁脉; v.收帆
>
> **genuflect**: （在教堂礼拜时）跪拜；卑躬屈膝
>

5.The **Solomon**s deal is a warning to America and its allies. China denies a naval base is in the works, but a leaked draft of the secret agreement **envisage**s the deployment of Chinese troops and visits by Chinese ships. That could give China a military presence not just near important shipping routes, but between America and its Pacific allies, Australia and New Zealand.

> **Solomons**：所罗门群岛
>
> **envisage**: 设想；展望
>

6.How to respond? For a start, democracies should learn from China, which has spent years diligently **woo**ing Pacific Island governments. America’s engagement, by contrast, **wane**d after the cold war’s end, giving it the reputation of a **fickle** and **high handed** partner. It closed its embassy on the Solomons in 1993. Australia’s national broadcaster stopped short­wave radio transmissions to the Pacific five years ago, despite their value to locals as a source of information. China Radio International now broadcasts on some of those same frequencies. China persuaded the Solomons and **Kiribati** to stop recognising Taiwan in 2019,reportedly in exchange for generous aid and aeroplanes.

> **woo**: 争取…的支持；寻求…的赞同；追求（异性）
>
> **wane**: 衰落；减弱；缺
>
> **fickle**: 易变的；无常的；反复无常的
>
> **high handed** :专横的；霸道的
>
> **Kiribati**: 基里巴斯；太平洋中部岛国
>

7.America and its allies, who still enjoy more goodwill in the region than China, should offer Pacific Islanders a better, more transparent deal. Aid is not the problem—Australia is still the largestdonor to the Solomons. Instead Western countries need to offer enhanced terms of trade, more open labour markets and technology and expertise, especially in areas that matter to Pacific states, such as climate change, education, environmental protection, health care, illegal fishing and internet connectivity.

8.America has promised to reopen its embassy and hold a strategic dialogue with the Solomons. Better still would be to create a new position, American ambassador to the Pacific, with a more direct line to the White House. That would help America, Australia and New Zealand co­ordinate their policies across the region, not just with each other, but with Japan, France and other like minded democracies that have interests there.

9.America and its allies will not be able to stop China everywhere—nor should they try. A limited Chinese military presence abroad does not have to be a threat. In Djibouti Chinese soldiers have **thus far** co­existed with American, French, Italian and Japanese forces, all of which have their own bases in the country. Rather than play “global **whack­a­mole**”, as an American expert puts it, Western countries should treat this challenge like chess. That means **anticipating** Chinese moves, making blocking **manoeuvre**s when necessary, and thinking in a strategic way. Just don’t treat countries like the Solomons as **pawn**s.

> **thus far **: 至今；到目前为止
>
> **whack­a­mole**:打地鼠
>
> **anticipate **: 预期；预测
>
> **manoeuvre: **策略；手段; 演习;
>
> **pawn**: （国际象棋的）兵，卒; 被利用的人；走卒
>

