# D416 House prices are going ballistic
> **keep (one's) head**: To be and remain in a calm, stable, sensible, and pragmatic state or condition despite stress.
 > 

1 One obsession unites the rich world: housing. In the past year billions of people have been **cooped up** inside their homes for hours **on end**. As restrictions have eased, house prices have started to **go through the roof**. In America prices increased by 11% in the year to January, their fastest pace in 15 years. In New Zealand prices are up by 22%. Among the 25 countries that The Economist tracks, real house prices rose by 5% on average in the latest 12-month period, the quickest in over a decade.

> If you say that someone is **cooped up**, you mean that they live or are kept in a place which is too small, or which does not allow them much freedom. 被禁锢的
>
> **on end**:  Continuously, without interruption  **e.g.** It's been raining for days on end.
>
> **go through the roof:** 飞涨
>

2 Home values, like the price of other assets, have been boosted by low interest rates and fiscal stimulus. Many households have spare cash **sloshing around**—savings rates have increased by more than half in the rich world—and borrowing has rarely been cheaper. Separately, covid-19 has caused a shift in demand away from big cities to housing in less crowded places. The expectation that commuting may no longer be daily has caused house prices in suburban locations to rise faster than in cities—reversing a decade-long trend.

> Definition of **SLOSH AROUND** (phrasal verb): when lots of **money** is available.
>

3 Governments and central banks, haunted by the financial crisis of 2007-09 and aware of public unease about expensive housing, are worrying about **exuberance**. In New Zealand the finance minister has asked the central bank to “consider the impact on housing” in its monetary-policy decisions. Central bankers from Copenhagen to Ottawa have expressed concern at the pace of housing inflation. In recent years many municipal governments have implemented rent controls as **knee-jerk** responses to rising prices. Spain may follow at the national level. As attention turns from controlling the virus to the post-pandemic world, the pressure to **step in** is likely to grow.

> ADJ[ADJ n][表不满]形容词If you call someone's response to a question or situation a **knee-jerk** reaction, you mean that they react in a very predictable way, without thinking. 未经考虑做出的
>

4 Policymakers in rich countries should resist. One reason is that house prices do not look as if they threaten financial stability. Although some people are wild for new properties, overall household borrowing remains restrained in the rich world. In contrast to 15 years ago, banks’ balance-sheets today have solid foundations. If house prices in America fell by one-quarter, its 33 biggest banks would still have 50% more capital than they had going into the crisis of 2007-09.

> **5 Key money**
>
> Neither is there much evidence that lending standards are slipping, either among banks or among the non-bank lenders that make up a growing share of mortgage origination in America. **Underwriting standards** remain tight, with lenders keenest on borrowers who have good credit histories. In Britain new lending at high loan-to-income ratios is about one-third below the limit imposed by the central bank.
>
> **underwriting**: 保险业；[金融] 证券包销
>
> **Underwriting standards** are **guidelines** set by banks and lending institutions for determining whether a borrower is worthy of credit
>

6 Another reason to resist intervention is that housing markets are still being distorted by the effect of lockdowns. The price rises in the past year reflect a relatively small number of transactions, as the volume of activity in the housing market has dropped—it is hard to invite **scores of** potential buyers to **snoop** around your bedroom and check your plumbing during a lockdown. In Britain only 3.6% of the stock of homes changed hands last year compared with 6.5% in 2006.

7 Prices have leapt in part because supply is low. However, the ending of mortgage-**forbearance** programmes has deferred some sales by those struggling to pay their mortgage. The increase in supply should, our own model suggests, help cool prices. The rate of new construction in America and Britain looks solid which will help, too. If demand does end up shifting permanently to less-crowded places, the pace of housebuilding may even pick up. It is easier to build new properties away from America’s coastal cities, with their **elaborate** regulations and limited free space.

> If you say that someone has shown **forbearance**, you admire them for behaving in a calm and sensible way about something that they have a right to be very upset or angry about. 宽容
>
> A **mortgage forbearance** agreement is made when a borrower has a difficult time meeting their payments
>

8 Instead of being **trigger-happy** with rent control and other regulations, governments should expend more energy on tackling the housing market’s long-term problems. Top of the list is phasing out tax breaks for homeownership. Mortgage-interest deductions are a **windfall** to the **well-off** that does not boost homeownership. Despite recent reforms, America’s tax **perks** will still cost the Treasury $650bn over the next decade. Governments should liberalise planning rules and support new developments by providing better transport infrastructure. The strength of the property market in the pandemic **confounded** early expectations of **doom and gloom**. Even so, the laws of supply and demand dictate that housing will be cheaper if more homes are built. ■

> ADJ[非正式]形容词If you describe someone as **trigger-happy**, you disapprove of them because they are too ready and willing to use violence and weapons, especially guns. 好动武的; 爱动用武器的(尤指爱开枪的)
>
> A **windfall** is a sum of money that you receive unexpectedly or by luck, for example, if you win a lottery. 意外之财
>
> Someone who is **well-off** is rich enough to be able to do and buy most of the things that they want. 富裕的
>
> **confound**: prove (a theory or expectation) wrong.
>

