---
description: A plan to fight fake news could hobble real journalism
---

# D593 Off-target
> **off-target**：脱靶
 > 
> **hobble**：跛行
 > 

1 When lawmakers from South Korea’s ruling Minjoo party discuss their plan to impose tougher penalties on the media for reporting “fake news” , they stress that they merely want to safeguard vulnerable citizens. “It’s the least we can do to protect the people from fake news,” one legislator told reporters earlier this month. “We have to remember that our people’ s basic rights and  freedoms are more important than the freedom of the press ,” said another. The proposed changes to the Press Arbitration Act of 2011, the party argues, would improve the quality of reporting and increase the public’s trust in it.

> **Arbitration**: 公断；调停；仲裁条款
>

2 Hogwash, says the conservative opposition, which quashed a first attempt to pass the bill last month by threatening a filibuster. The proposal, it argues, is an attempt by the government to shield itself from criticism. Other observers appear to agree. Last week, a coalition of activist groups including Human Rights Watch called on legislators from all parties to reject the bill when it is put to another vote in the National Assembly on September 27th.

> **quash**：撤销、废止、镇压
>
> **filibuster**:阻挠议事；冗长发言；冗长辩论
>

3 The bill introduces new provisions allowing individuals and small businesses to go after reporters and media organisations for, among other things , causing “emotional distress” by spreading false information either intentionally or as a result of “gross negligence”, for instance without fact-checking . Critics worry the vague wording of some of the clauses would give the authorities too much discretion to decide which reports qualify for corrections or damages . A letter from the un’s special rapporteur on freedom of expression, sent to the government in August, warned that the law could be used to limit ordinary news reporting and criticism of the government, and could see writers held liable for parody and satire or simply for expressing unpopular opinions.

> **discretion**：酌情决定权 [正式]
>
> **rapporteur[ˌræpɔːrˈtɜːr]**：调查员; 报告员 [正式]
>
> **negligence**:过失；疏忽；失职；失误
>
> **gross negligence**:重大过失
>
> **parody**:滑稽模仿作品；拙劣的模仿
>
> **satire** :讽刺；讥讽；讽刺作品
>

4 The ruling party’s concerns are not entirely unfounded. Like people everywhere, South Koreans are exposed to mountains of humbug. A noisy minority of mostly elderly rightwingers watch YouTube channels that spread misinformation about vaccines, American politics and President Moon Jaein’s supposed chumminess with North Korea, the Chinese Communist Party, the devil, or all three . Even beyond the radical fringe, most people get their news from online aggregators whose algorithms reward sensationalist clickbait and which take little responsibility for sourcing . The biggest newspapers have long standing links to big conglomerates; the heads of public broadcasters change with the government. Unsurprisingly, less than a third of South Koreans say they trust the news.

> **unfounded**：毫无根据的
>
> **humbug**：欺骗; 空
>
> **chumminess**：亲密无间；友好
>
> **fringe**：次要部分; 外围
>
> **aggregator**：信息采集商业组织、聚合器
>
> **sensationalist**：哗众取宠的 [表不满]
>
> **conglomerate**:企业集团；联合大公司
>

5 But if legislators are indeed trying to solve these problems and bolster their democracy, they are going about it in a curious way, says Park Kyungsin, a law professor and freespeech activist at Korea University in Seoul. Most fake news and conspiracy-mongering originates on social media, he notes. But the law only applies to newspapers and broadcasters , leaving the main source of falsehoods untouched. Mr Park suspects the party ’s real motive is a feeling of being under siege by the press: they find it hard to accept that, in government, “they’re being criticised by all journalists, not just the rightwing media”.

> **bolster**：增强
>
> **mongering**：兜售的
>
> **falsehood**：虚假
>
> **siege**:围攻；攻城战；不断袭击
>

6 It is all the more surprising given that press freedom in South Korea has improved significantly since Mr Moon took power in 2017. South Korea climbed 30 places in a global press freedom index compiled by Reporters Without Borders, a watchdog, after his election. And it is an unusual bill for a liberal democracy to propose, carrying as it does elements of similar laws passed in recent years by bossier places such as Singapore.

7 The many complaints have not fallen on deaf ears. Minjoo legislators have responded by drafting a revised version of the bill. But it still fails to resolve the main worry, that the law would unduly restrict speech. Given the party’s absolute majority, it is likely to pass, unless legislators decide to withdraw it. If it does, South Korea will surely drop a few places in next year’s pressfreedom ranking.

> **unduly**：过分地
>
> **fallen on deaf ears**:置若罔闻
>

