---
description: He was elected in the closest race in his country’s democratic history 
---

# D753 Yoon Suk-yeol will be the next president of South Korea
> **Yoon Suk-yeol ：尹锡悦**
 > 

1 On south korean television screens on election night, news channels kept viewers entertained with **zany** coverage. Instead of **clean-cut talking head**s, one broadcaster’s vote count was accompanied by computer-generated avatars of the two main presidential candidates in stained T-shirts, dirt-splattered leather jackets and **weather-beaten** motorcycle boots. As the numbers slowly ticked up, they danced to k-pop, rode **locomotive**s and raced cars and motorbikes through a desolate, **post-apocalyptic** landscape. The **dystopian** setting and animated **mudslinging** summed up an election that had been defined less by sober debates about policy than by name-calling and political **stunt**s.

> **zany**：古怪的；滑稽可笑的；
>
> **clean-cut**：外表整洁的
>
> **talking head**:发言者特写头像；脸部特写
>
> **locomotive**：机车；火车头
>
> **weather-beaten**:破旧的
>
> **post-apocalyptic**：浩劫后；后末世
>
> **dystopian**:反乌托邦
>
> **mudslinging** :中伤;泼污；黑材料
>
> **stunt**:噱头
>

2 It was close until the very last moment. Exit polls on the evening of March 9th showed the two main candidates—Yoon Suk-yeol of the conservative People Power Party and Lee Jae-myung of the governing left-of-centre **Minjoo** Party—in a dead heat. Mr Yoon carried the day by the smallest margin in South Korea’s democratic history, winning 48.56% of the vote to Mr Lee’s 47.83%, with a turnout of 77.1%. He will take office in May.

> **Exit pol**l：选举投票后民调、投票站出口民调
>
> **Dead heat**：势均力敌、不分胜负
>
> **Carry the day**：获胜、战胜
>

3 The son of professors, Mr Yoon is a long-standing member of Seoul’s elite. He made his name as a **hard-driving prosecutor** who played a key role in going after Park Geun-hye, a former president, for corruption. He entered politics less than a year ago, quitting his job as chief prosecutor under **Moon Jae-in**, the **outgoing** president, after the two fell out over an investigation of the justice minister.

> **prosecutor** :检察官；公诉人；原告律师
>
> **elite**：上层人士
>
> **hard-driving**: 冲劲的；野心勃勃
>
> **Moon Jae-in**：文在寅
>
> **outgoing**：即将离职的
>
> **Fall out**：吵架、闹翻
>

4 Mr Yoon has promised voters a presidency defined at home by anti-corruption, **meritocracy** and the rule of law. On foreign policy his priorities are closer alignment with America and a tougher **stance** against North Korea and China. In his **acceptance speech**, Mr Yoon said that he would work with his opponents and make national unity a priority after a divisive campaign.

> **meritocracy**:精英领导体制
>
> **stance** :立场
>
> **acceptance speech**:总统候选人所做的提名演讲
>

5 That will be essential if Mr Yoon hopes to achieve anything. The new president will struggle to pass any legislation without the support of his opponents, who retain a legislative supermajority in the **National Assembly**. Indeed, they could sabotage his presidency from the very beginning, for instance by rejecting his nominee for prime minister, or by refusing to lend support to his proposed package of pandemic recovery measures, the top item on his agenda. Given the **wafer-thin** margin by which Mr Yoon won the presidency, there is no guarantee that his ppp will win the next National Assembly elections in 2024, so he may face an unfriendly **legislature** for his entire term.

> **National Assembly**:国民大会
>
> **legislature**:立法机关/团体
>
> **wafer-thin**：极薄的
>
> **People Power Party**：国民力量党
>

6 The promise of unity will anyway have **rung** hollow to most voters. His campaign stoked division. He claimed that women in South Korea, which is routinely rated the worst place among rich countries to be a working woman, no longer suffered from **baked-in** discrimination. He also blamed feminism for the country’s low fertility rate. That endeared him to young men frustrated by compulsory military service and a lack of good jobs when they get out, but lost him the support of women under 60, according to exit polls.

> **ring hollow**：听起来不诚恳；听上去空泛泛
>
> **baked-in**: 烘焙式行销；自营销 incorporate something as an integral part of a product, service or system.
>

7 Worse, he played to the electorate’s basest instincts, **pandering** to conspiracy theories about potential election-rigging by his opponent, who has conceded defeat, and threatening to prosecute opposition politicians for corruption if elected. Minjoo politicians, many of whom enthusiastically cheered him on when he prosecuted conservatives, are unlikely to take well to similar treatment.

> **base**：下流、卑鄙
>
> **pander**：迎合
>
> **rigging**: 操纵；营私舞弊（对投票的）
>
> **concede**：（通常指不情愿地）承认
>

8 Away from home, Mr Yoon’s job will be no easier. Vladimir Putin’s invasion of Ukraine has deepened the political and economic fissures between Western democracies and autocracies such as Russia and China. That complicates South Korea’s already tricky position as a military ally of America that trades a lot with China. Meanwhile South Korea’s **bothersome** northern neighbour has ramped up missile testing this year. It also appears to be rebuilding a nuclear test facility which it **dismantled** during a period of **detente** in 2018, raising the possibility of heightened tensions in the coming months. When it comes to growing into his new role as president, the former prosecutor has little time to lose.

> **dismantel**：拆除、解散
>
> **detente[ˌdeɪˈtɑːnt]**：缓和
>
> **bothersome**:引起麻烦的；困扰人的
>

