# D625 No, Really, the Right to an Abortion Is Supported by the Text and History of the Constitution
> Roe v. Wade：**罗诉韦德案**（英语：Roe v. Wade），又译为**露对威德案**，是美国联邦最高法院于1973年对于妇女堕胎权以及隐私权的重要案例，对于妇女堕胎的问题，美国联邦最高法院承认妇女的堕胎权，受到宪法隐私权的保护。此外最高法院对堕胎权的限制应采取严格审查标准，并提出“三阶段标准”。最高法院的判决至今仍受到美国的社会争议，部分反堕胎团体一直争取推翻判决，而支持堕胎权的人士则要求维持最高法院的判决。判决后各州均制定不同的法律，惟限制不一。1973年1月22日，联邦最高法院于1973年以7比2的比数，认定德州刑法限制妇女堕胎权的规定，违反美国宪法第十四修正案“正当法律程序”条款。
 > 

1 For decades, conservative originalists have denounced Roe v. Wade and Planned Parenthood v. Casey—two Supreme Court cases that held that the right to abortion is a fundamental liberty protected by the Fourteenth Amendment—as egregious rulings unmoored from anything in the Constitution. As Justice Antonin Scalia argued in 1989, the protection of unwritten fundamental rights fell outside the judicial function. “The tools of this job,” he wrote, “are not to be found in the lawyer’s—and hence not the judge’s—workbox.”

> **Planned Parenthood v. Casey**：凯西诉计划生育组织案
>
> **denounce**：谴责；指责；斥责
>
> **originalist**：原旨主义者（依据治宪者的意图或者宪法条文的含义来 解释宪法）
>
> **egregious**：极坏的; 极恶劣的[正式]
>
> **unmoor[ʌnˈmʊr]**：下锚、脱离
>

2 These so-called originalists are deeply misguided. An originalist reading of the text and history of the Fourteenth Amendment, in fact, provides a strong basis for protecting unenumerated fundamental rights, including rights to bodily integrity, establishing a family, and reproductive liberty. The right to abortion flows logically from there. The Supreme Court should recognize this when it decides this term’s blockbuster case, Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization.

> **unenumerated**：未列举；未明言（之权利）
>
> **blockbuster**：一鸣惊人的事物；（尤指）非常成功的书（或电影）
>
> **Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization**: 多布斯诉杰克逊女性健康组织案
>
> It is of course true that the debates over the Fourteenth Amendment do not explicitly mention abortion. But there is no daylight between the rights specifically affirmed in the debates and the right to abortion.
>

3 The rights to control one’s body, establish a family, and have children necessarily safeguard the right to abortion as a fundamental right. The right of “having a family, a wife, children, home,” as Senator Jacob Howard, who played a central role in drafting the Fourteenth Amendment, put it, guarantees to the individual free choice in matters of family and childbirth, in the same way that the freedom of speech also includes the right to not speak. The right to bear and raise children and the right to abortion are two sides of the same coin—both integral parts of reproductive freedom. In our constitutional heritage, laws that prohibit abortion and those that compel abortion are equally offensive to bodily integrity, autonomy, and equal dignity.

> **integral**：必需的；不可或缺的；作为组成部分的；完整的
>

4 Understanding the true meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment is now more important than ever, with the right to abortion under concerted attack and a Supreme Court seemingly eager to heed the charge. In early September, the Court refused to intervene to stop Texas from banning virtually all abortions, effectively nullifying Roe’s protections for Texans in a one-paragraph order issued without oral argument. In Dobbs, a challenge to Mississippi’s ban on abortions performed after 15 weeks of pregnancy, scheduled to be argued on December 1, the Court’s conservative majority could, and very well may, roll back the fundamental right that millions of individuals have relied on to control their own bodies, choose whether and when to start a family, determine their life course, and participate as equals in American life.
Upholding a ban on abortion would not simply be flouting half a century of Supreme Court precedent. It would be breaking faith with a crucial part of the Fourteenth Amendment and its history.

> **concerted**：努力的；共同筹划决定的；同心协力的
>
> **heed**：留心；听从；留意
>
> **Nullify**: 使失去法律效力；废止；使无效；抵消
>
> **roll back**: 击退；压平(物价)
>
> **uphold**：支持，维护（法规、制度或原则）、维持（法院原判）
>
> **flout**：藐视
>

5 More than 150 years ago, following a bloody Civil War fought over slavery, the Fourteenth Amendment fundamentally altered the meaning of freedom, requiring states to respect all “privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States”; forbidding the deprivation of “life, liberty, or property without due process of law”; and guaranteeing to all “the equal protection of the laws.” To redress slavery’s horrific abuses, the Fourteenth Amendment mandated that states respect all substantive fundamental rights essential to liberty. This guarantee drew specifically on the Declaration of Independence’s promise of “unalienable Rights,” including “Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness,” and the Ninth Amendment’s affirmation that the “enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people.”

> **due process**：正当程序；正当法律程序；程序正义
>
> **substantive**：重大的
>
> **redress**：纠正；矫正；改正
>
> **unalienable**：不可剥夺的；不可分割的；不可让渡的
>
> **disparage**：蔑视；贬损；轻蔑
>
> **enumeration**:列举；计算；详述；细目
>
> **construe**：理解；领会
>

6 The Fourteenth Amendment, its framers celebrated, would be “the gem of the Constitution” because “it is the Declaration of Independence placed immutably and forever in our Constitution.” Roe’s opponents often stress that the Constitution’s text says nothing about abortion, but the fact that the Fourteenth Amendment enshrines rights not found elsewhere in the Constitution’s text should not be surprising. The Ninth Amendment affirms that the Constitution protects unenumerated rights. As the Federalist Society co-founder Steven Calabresi has shown, more than three-quarters of state constitutions at the time of the ratification of the Fourteenth Amendment did the same.

> **framer**：制宪者；筹划者
>
> **gem** :宝石
>
> **Immutably**：不变地、永恒地
>
> **enshrine**： 视...为神圣; 使...神圣不可侵犯
>
> **unenumerated**：未列举的
>
> **ratification**：批准、认可
>

7 To understand why the Fourteenth Amendment’s protections are **so sweeping and phrased in general terms**, remember that the amendment was a response to slavery. Its framers sought to safeguard fundamental rights that have no explicit textual basis in the Bill of Rights but that are crucial to equality and liberty. To ensure true freedom and redress the subjugation of Black bodies during slavery required, at a minimum, asserting control over one’s body as a basic right. During the debates, members of Congress insisted that a person’s “uninterrupted enjoyment of his life, his limbs, his body, his health” was a bedrock right guaranteed to all. Without bodily integrity, the Fourteenth Amendment’s promise of equal citizenship would be illusory.

> **sweeping**：(改变) 意义深远的
>
> **Subjugation**：征服；镇压；克制
>
> **redress**：纠正；矫正；改正
>
> **assert**:宣称；维护；声称
>
> **uninterrupted**:not stopped or blocked by anything
>

8 Protecting people’s reproductive liberty was very much a part of that effort to define what it means to not be enslaved—to be free. One of slavery’s cruelest aspects was the brutal denial of reproductive autonomy in matters of family life. Plantation owners forced enslaved women to bear children who would be born into bondage. Rape and other forms of coerced procreation enabled the growth of the institution of slavery, even after the international slave trade was outlawed in 1808. “Slavery is terrible for men,” wrote Harriet Jacobs in the 1861 narrative of her enslavement, “but it is far more terrible for women.” Jacobs’s autobiography, as the intellectual Henry Louis Gates has observed, demonstrated how enslaved women were treated as “object[s] to be raped, bred, or abused.” Not only were enslaved people coerced into bearing children; enslaved people in loving relationships had no right to marry or raise children of their own. A spouse or a child could be sold **on a whim**, and untold numbers were. Family separations were endemic to slavery: About half of the enslaved people sold on the interstate market were forced to leave behind a spouse or a parent.

> **bondage**：奴役
>
> **coerce**: 强迫；胁迫；迫使
>
> **procreation**：生殖；生产
>
> **intellectual**：知识分子
>
> **on a whim**：一时冲动
>
> **untold number**：难以计数；无数
>
> **endemic**： (情况、问题) 极为普遍的 [书面]
>

9 The framers of the Fourteenth Amendment recoiled at the treatment of enslaved families and wrote the amendment to provide broad protection for what might be called rights of heart and home: the right to marry a loved one, to establish a family, to decide whether to bear and raise children. As the debates in the 39th Congress reflect, true freedom would be impossible without securing those freed from enslavement the right “to be protected in their homes and families,” as Senator John Sherman said. Because reproductive freedom and family life were impossible “where the wife is the property of the husband’s master and may be used at will” and where “children are bred, like stock, for sale,” Representative Thomas Eliot argued, “no act of ours can fitly enforce their freedom that does not contemplate for them the security of home.” The denial of these basic rights under slavery provided an invaluable lesson about the meaning of freedom: Decisions about marriage, family, and reproduction had to be left to the individual, not coerced by the government or subject to the brutal domination of another.

> **Hearth and home**：家庭生活 one's family life
>
> **recoil at**： (因厌恶而) 拒绝
>
> **contemplate**：考虑再三
>

10 During the debates in the 39th Congress, Senator Howard eloquently spoke to how enslaved people had been robbed of their dignity and stripped of their rights to marry a loved one, start a family according to their desires, and enjoy reproductive freedom. An enslaved person, Howard told Congress, “had not the right to become a husband or a father in the eye of the law, he had no child, he was not at liberty to indulge the natural affections of the human heart for children, for wife, or even for friend.” Howard urged that the “attributes of a freeman according to the universal understanding of the American people” should include “the right of having a family, a wife, children, home.”
Read: The Roe baby

> **eloquently**：善辩地；富于表现力地
>
> **strip of**：剥夺
>
> **indulge**：纵容
>
> **attribute**: 属性；象征;特质；基本属性
>
> **in the eye of**:从…观点来看
>

11 The most difficult question is not whether the Constitution protects an individual’s right to abortion but how to strike a balance between an individual’s constitutional rights and the government’s interests in a potential life and a pregnant person’s health. The Supreme Court, by and large, has struck a workable balance: The government may regulate abortion but it may not override or obstruct an individual’s right to control their body and destiny. Whatever the interest of the government in pre-viable fetal life, it cannot be superior to the interests of an adult who has already been born in vindicating their full constitutional rights.

> **strike a balance**：权衡利弊 ;在…之间达成平衡
>
> by and large: in general; on the whole 一般说来; 总体上
>
> **override**:凌驾；（以权力）否决；比…更重要；超驰控制
>
> **pre-viable**：胎儿还不能生活的
>
> not considered sufficiently developed to survive outside the uterus
>
> **vindicate**：维护
>

12 The Supreme Court has never recognized a compelling state interest that allows the government to completely extinguish a fundamental right. And the case for recognizing one for the first time in the abortion context is weak. The common law, the body of law inherited from England and derived from judicial precedent—often a source of guidance to the Supreme Court—did not regard the interest in potential life from the moment of conception as a compelling one, and permitted abortions well into the second trimester of pregnancy. When some states, in the mid-19th century, enacted bans on abortion throughout pregnancy, they typically rested on outmoded and discriminatory justifications about women’s proper role and racist fears about declining white birth rates. This is hardly the stuff out of which compelling state interests are formed.

> **outmoded**：过时的
>
> **compelling**：引人入胜的；扣人心弦的；非常强烈的；不可抗拒的
>
> **enact**：扮演；通过（法律）；担任…角色；演出
>
> **second trimester** ：孕中期
>
> Interest: a legal concern, title, or right in property.
>

13 The right to abortion is a fundamental right with deep roots in the Fourteenth Amendment. If the Court refuses to protect that right, it will betray the Fourteenth Amendment’s promise that all people have a right to control their bodies, shape the course of their lives, and participate as equals in American life. The Supreme Court must reaffirm the right to abortion, not merely out of respect for precedent but because it must be faithful to the Constitution’s text and history.

> 本文链接 https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2021/11/roe-was-originalist-reading-constitution/620600/
>

