# D384 Kazuo Ishiguro’s rich meditation on love and morality
> **Klara and the Sun. By Kazuo Ishiguro.** **Knopf; 320 pages; $28. Faber £20**
 > 

1 In “the buried giant”, published in 2015, an elderly couple make a perilous journey through a war-ravaged post-Arthurian Britain, a land mysteriously **afflicted** by widespread **amnesia**. Sir Kazuo Ishiguro’s slippery allegory about the aftermath of conflict, and the value of forgetting as well as remembering, confounded some critics. It was seen as a puzzling left-turn into fantasy—a tag the author rejected, prompting accusations that not only had he **raided** a downmarket **genre**, he had done so ungraciously.

2 These arguments fell away when Sir Kazuo, now 66, won the Nobel prize for literature in 2017 (he was **knighted** two years later). But they may resurface now that he has turned to science fiction—or rather turned back to it, following his boarding-school dystopia “Never Let Me Go” (2005), which contemplated human cloning. Set in an overheated, rigidly stratified America, “Klara and the Sun”, his first post-Nobel novel, is a coming-of-age tale in which sophisticated solar-powered **androids**—entirely human in appearance and known as afs, or Artificial Friends—are purchased by wealthy parents as company for their offspring. These children are taught remotely via smartphones and are genetically modified, or “lifted”, in a potentially fatal procedure intended to guarantee future entry into an elite university.

> V-T及物动词If you **contemplate** something or someone, you look at them for a long time. 凝视
>
> N-COUNT可数名词In science fiction books and films, an **android** is a robot that looks like a human being. 人形机器人
>

3 One of the book’s pleasures is that it trusts the reader to **infer** such details. What makes the subtly **sinister** setting doubly strange is that it is **refracted** through the partial understanding of the narrator, an especially sensitive af named Klara, who recounts her **bittersweet** experience serving a mysteriously ill teenager, Josie. In a distinctly unrobotic bout of magical thinking, she begs the sun—the source of her energy—to cure Josie, vowing in return to combat air pollution. Keeping her bargain requires a **furtive** and **quixotic** quest and help from Josie’s loyal friend, Rick. Unlike Josie, Rick has not been “lifted”, one of many points of slow-burn conflict.

> ADJ[正式]形容词If you describe someone's ideas or plans as **quixotic**, you mean that they are imaginative or hopeful but unrealistic. 不切实际的
>

4 Sir Kazuo’s characteristically **unassuming** style draws the reader into a richly layered plot. His speculative scenario of technological innovation is also a domestic **satire** on aspirational parenting. Philosophical questions of faith and mortality mix with storylines involving boy trouble and mother-daughter **strife**. Josie’s sickness is a metaphor for the pressures of a hot-housed adolescence, yet the story holds attention on its own terms, too.

5 The effect ultimately resembles a cross between “Never Let Me Go” and “The Remains of the Day” (1989), with Klara in the place of Stevens, the **butler** whose first-person narration provided a **between-the-lines** portrait of morality among the English upper crust in the interwar years. As a **rebuke** to the hyper-engineered society that created her, Klara’s paradoxically humane conduct lends the book a **melancholy** beauty. Her devotion to a form of true love may be artificial, but, tragically, it is more than her flesh-and-blood counterparts can offer one another.

> **between-the-lines**:字里行间；言外之意
>

