# D282 Officials in China abhor money-worship. A dating show glorifies it
> V-T[正式]及物动词If you **abhor** something, you hate it very much, especially for moral reasons. 憎恶
 > 
> Censors frown on “If You Are The One”, but the programme is wildly popular
 > 

1 Few chinese television programmes command as loyal a fan base as “If You Are The One”, a matchmaking show now in its tenth year. In its early days, some 50m viewers tuned in to each episode—an audience second only to the evening news **bulletin** produced by the state broadcaster. Today “If You Are The One” is the sixth-most-watched show in China. But this modest **dip** in its domestic ranking has been offset by gains overseas. Broadcasters in Australia and Malaysia have picked it up. Episodes on YouTube attract millions of views around the world.

> ADJ[usu v-link ADJ 'to' n]形容词If someone is **tuned in** **to** something, they are aware of it and concentrating on it. 关注的
>

2 Each **instalment** features a male contestant and 24 prospective female dates. The charismatic moderator, Meng Fei, a former news **anchor**, invites the bachelorettes to grill the bachelor on any topic they like. The main draw of the show lies in their questions, which often focus on the man’s financial standing. In one of the show’s first episodes, a female participant famously **quip**ped that she would rather “cry in a bmw” than smile on the back of her boyfriend’s bicycle. In another one a woman refused to shake a contestant’s hand because he made less than 200,000 yuan ($30,400) a month.

> financial standing: 财务状况
>

3 Such **unabashed** **hankering after** wealth on a programme watched by legions of young Chinese made the Communist Party feel uneasy. Media regulators promptly ordered the show to stop “showcasing and **hyping up** money-worship” **on pain of** cancellation. The **ostensible** reason was that glorifying gold-diggers **contravened** the party’s socialist values. Officials, however, may have been concerned about another danger. Chinese men outnumber women, thanks to sex-selective abortion, so many poor males are doomed to remain single. Reminding them that rich **blokes** have far more romantic options might make them envious—and angry.

> gold-digger:用色相骗取钱财的女人
>
> PHRASAL VERB动词词组**Hype up** means the same as . 大肆宣传
>

4 These days, female candidates on the programme are no longer allowed to ask male contestants how much they earn or which car they drive. Hobbies from rugby to rap have become the go-to topics of conversation. Yet “wealth **fetishism**” remains an **undercurrent**, notes Siyu Chen, a Chinese scholar. The questions are just phrased more diplomatically. Bachelors are probed about their jobs rather than their salaries.

> diplomatically: 圆滑地，婉转地
>

5 **Tactfulness** is not always observed. In a recent episode one bachelorette asked whether the man was willing to subsidise her monthly rent of 6,800 yuan. Incidents like this often prompt angry (male) viewers to dig up and publish private information about the “female offender” on Baidu Tieba, a social-media forum which hosts a fan page for the show containing 16m user-generated posts. Many female commentators **ridicule** these “insecure” men.

> N-COUNT可数名词You can refer to someone or something which you think is causing a problem as an **offender**. 制造麻烦者; 造成麻烦之物
>

6 Censors reckon the show could try harder to **tone down** the money motive. Last year the government published an “Outline for the Moral Construction of Citizens in the New Era”. It identifies “money worship” as a cause of “moral failure”. In February regulators hinted that dating shows were not helping. But “If You Are The One” keeps going. Perhaps officials deem that Mr Meng, the host, has done just enough to restrain his contestants’ impulses. Or perhaps the party reckons that crushing the life out of such a popular show could infuriate people. Enraged citizens may be a more unsettling prospect than people lusting for wealth. ■

