---
description: The post-election coalition talks are likely to be extremely arduous
---

# D581 The warring parties’ plans for Germany’s economy are full of holes
> **warring:** involved in a war/fighting参与战争的
 > 
> **arduous**: 艰难的
 > 

1 “I hope you never have to see it like this again,” says Markus Quint, communications chief for Frankfurt’s Messe (exhibition centre), as he surveys 440,000 square metres of empty halls from a 22nd-floor terrace. When the pandemic struck last spring the Messe, which had welcomed nearly 2.5m visitors in 2019, had to shut for all business bar the digital sort. Worldwide revenues (the Messe has 29 subsidiaries) plunged from €736m ($870m) to €257m. Most of the 1,000-odd Frankfurt staff went on Kurzarbeitergeld, Germany’s much-imitated furlough scheme.

> **odd**：左右
>
> **furlough**:  n&v 被迫休假
>
> **bar**: prep. 除了=except
>

2 As Germans prepare to go to the polls on September 26th, recovery is glinting. Mr Quint says he could have “cried with joy” in July when the Messe reopened for its first physical exhibition, a trade fair for bike-part manufacturers. Bigger shows are in the works, including a return of the famous Frankfurt Book Fair next month.

> **glint: n&v** 发出/反射微光
>

3 Yet the threat from covid-19 has not evaporated. In the Messe’s case, border restrictions and quarantine rules make it near-impossible for what was once a large contingent of Asian and American visitors to attend the shows. Other businesses fear the return of some contact restrictions amid a fourth wave of infections and Germany’s worryingly low vaccination rate.

> **contingent** ：代表团，分队
>

4 Hiccups in supply chains present a more serious drag on Germany’s recovery, says Clemens Fuest of the Ifo Institute in Munich. The global semiconductor shortage is crippling Germany’s mighty carmakers. Fully 70% of all German manufacturers say they are running low on everything from aluminium to paper. Highly globalised Germany—its total trade was equivalent to 88% of gdp in 2019—is particularly exposed. Having previously forecast that the economy would reach its pre-crisis level at the end of 2021, Ifo has grown more pessimistic.

> **hiccup**：打嗝；小问题
>

5 No wonder German firms are watching the election campaign with keen interest—and in some cases grave concern. Jürgen Vormann, ceo of Infraserv Höchst, a chemicals-service provider based in Frankfurt, says he fears that the next government will be zealous about climate change and so wrap business in red tape. Germany’s electricity prices, Europe’s highest, are a huge burden on industry. Some of Germany’s influential family businesses fear tax raids. “You need not be a pessimist to anticipate that we’re going in the wrong direction,” says Mr Vormann.

> **grave**:n.坟墓 adj.严重的，重要的，危险的=important/serious
>
> **zealous**:狂热的，热情的
>
> **wrap**:包裹
>
> **red tape**:指的是复杂并浪费时间的“官僚作风”official routine or procedure marked by excessive complexity which results in delay or inaction
>

6 In consensus-oriented Germany, none of the likely coalition configurations will bring economic rupture. But differences between the party platforms will make for tricky post-election negotiations, especially as polls suggest that only ideologically muddled three-way coalitions will be viable. The pro-business Free Democrats (fdp) and the conservative Christian Democratic bloc (cdu/csu), for example, vow not to increase the tax burden, whereas the Social Democrats (spd) and the Greens want a wealth tax and higher income taxes on the rich. All parties agree on the need to speed up climate protection, but differ strongly on the balance between market mechanisms and regulation.

> **configuration**: 配置，组合，结构
>
> make for:朝...方向走，导致
>
> **rupture**：破裂，决裂
>
> **muddle:** 混乱，迷惑，搅乱
>

7 This problem will interact with a more familiar one: the parties’ sums do not add up. The German Economic Institute (iw) reckons that by 2025 growing demands on the state-pension system, extra defence spending and a few other fresh expenses could reach a cumulative €263bn. But of the main parties, only the Greens have made pledges that they say will be revenue-neutral. The fdp’s tax cuts could add €75bn, roughly 2% of gdp, to the deficit. No party’s manifesto will survive coalition talks. But Germany’s constitutional brake on public debt, which took effect in 2016, limits annual deficits to 0.35% of gdp. All main parties bar the Greens say they wish to abide by it, yet growth alone will not generate enough cash to do so.

> **revenue-neutral**：税收中性；税收中立
>
> **manifesto**：竞选纲领；告示；宣言书
>
> **bar**: prep.除了（except)
>
> **abide by**:遵守take
>

8 Parties always make dodgy claims on taxation and spending, says Thomas Obst of the iw. He is more alarmed by their failure to confront Germany’s demographic challenges. As the baby-boomers retire en masse throughout the 2020s, subsidies to the pension system, which already gobbles up 30% of the federal budget, will rocket in the absence of reform. At a televised debate on September 12th only Armin Laschet, the cdu/csu candidate, acknowledged the urgency of the problem. Olaf Scholz, the spd frontrunner, brushed it aside, placing his faith in expanding the labour force.

> **dodgy**：狡猾的，善于骗人的
>
> baby-boom:婴儿潮-指的是在某一时期及特定地区，出生率大幅度提升的现象。出生在baby-boom时期的婴儿就叫baby-boomer
>
> **en masse**:全体，一起
>
> **gobble up**:狼吞虎咽，贪婪地吃
>
> **brush aside**:无视，置之不理
>

9 Another test will be to meet the investment demands presented by Germany’s climate targets, including extending power grids and insulating buildings. The private sector can take up much of the slack; revamping Germany’s planning rules and municipal working practices will help. But some estimates put the demand on the federal budget at close to €50bn a year.

> **power grid**：电力网
>
> **revamp**:修改，翻新
>
> **insulate**: 使隔 (冷) 热; 使隔音
>
> **slack**:不紧的；松弛的；萧条的；冷清的
>
> **take up the slack**: to do the things that someone else is not able or willing to do
>

10 If that also seems incompatible with the constraints of the debt brake, there may be room for a political fix. True, the tweak to the brake sought by the Greens is a non-starter, as it needs a two-thirds majority in each of the two parliamentary chambers. And months before the European Commission is due to begin a review of the eu’s fiscal rules, the cdu/csu fears that assenting to German profligacy now could encourager les autres (see Charlemagne).

> **debt brake**:  债务刹车,又称“债**务上限”，是一国宪法中规定的国家负债的最高限额。**
>
> 其目的不仅在于保持财政的长期稳定性和所谓的代际公平，更为重要的是为避免公共债务惹火烧身、引发经济危机做长远打算。
>
> **tweak**: 稍稍调整（机器、系统等）
>
> **non-starter**:无望取得成功的人或事
>
> **assent**:同意
>
> **profligacy**：挥霍，放荡，极度浪费
>
> **encourager les autres： as an example to others; encourage others**
>

11 But most parties would probably stomach what Mr Obst calls the “second-best solution” of establishing off-budget investment funds that could circumvent the debt brake. And there are signs of a subtle shift. Some cdu/csu figures have upset colleagues by questioning the rigidity of the debt brake in an era of cheap money and pressing investment needs. And while the fdp remains committed to it, Christian Lindner, the party’s leader, has lately emphasised that he is not ideologically wedded to a balanced budget—a move interpreted as an overture to the spd, currently leading the polls, and the Greens. The trio could assemble a left-leaning “traffic-light” coalition—the most plausible outcome if current polling is borne out on election day.
fdp: Free Democrats

> **stomach**：欣赏；欣然接受；喜欢和…相处；能吃
>
> **off-budget** ：预算外支出；预算案外
>
> **circumvent**: 设法避开
>
> **cheap money**：利息低廉的借款；(为刺激经济而实行的)低利率货币制
>
> **be wedded to**:坚持，执着
>
> **wedded to**：对…墨守成规；执着的
>
> **overture**: n&v 提议，提案，建议
>
> **borne out(bear out)**: 证明
>
> **plausible**：有道理的；可信的；巧言令色的；花言巧语的
>
> 德国每一个党派都由自己认定的颜色为代表，
>
> 联盟党（CDU/CSU）为黑色/中右派
>
> 社民党（SPD）红色/中左派
>
> 绿党（Grüne）顾名思义为绿色
>
> 自民党（FDP）黄色
>
> 左翼党（Die Linke）深红色
>
> 德国选择党（AfD）灰色
>

12 That illustrates a broader shift in Germany’s economic debate. “Everyone knows that we have to transform Germany…and for digitalisation and decarbonisation, it’s all about investment,” says Otto Fricke, an fdp budget expert. The divisions between parties on budgetary planning, monetary policy and European spending seem less rigid than in the past. The public debate is more tolerant of what used to be outlandish views. As ever, the theatrics of the campaign before the election will not preclude the compromises that will, eventually, be made after it.

> **decarbonisation**：低碳化
>
> **outlandish**：稀奇古怪的
>
> **preclude**：阻碍，妨碍，排除
>
> **rigid**：死板的；僵硬的；固执的；僵化的
>
> **theatric**：舞台表演艺术
>

