---
description: It is a welcome threat to malefactors and governments with something to hide
---

# D534 The promise of open-source intelligence
> **malefactor**: 坏人; 犯罪分子
 > 

1 The great hope of the 1990s and 2000s was that the internet would be a force for openness and freedom. As Stewart Brand, a pioneer of online communities, put it: “Information wants to be free, because the cost of getting it out is getting lower and lower all the time.” It was not to be. Bad information often **drove out** good. Authoritarian states **co-opted** the technologies that were supposed to loosen their **grip**. Information was **wield**ed as a weapon of war. Amid this disappointment one development offers cause for fresh hope: the emerging era of open-source intelligence (osint).

> **co-opt**：指派、借鉴、团结
>
> **drove out**：赶走；逐出
>
> **grip**：紧握；柄；支配
>
> **wield**：vt. 使用；行使；挥舞
>

2 New sensors, from **humdrum** dashboard cameras to satellites that can see across the electromagnetic **spectrum**, are examining the planet and its people as never before. The information they collect is becoming cheaper. Satellite images cost several thousand dollars 20 years ago, today they are often provided free and are of incomparably higher quality. A photograph of any spot on Earth, of a **stricken tanker** or the routes taken by joggers in a city is available with a few clicks. And online communities and collaborative tools, like Slack, enable **hobbyists** and experts to use this **cornucopia** of information to solve riddles and **unearth** misdeeds with astonishing speed.

> **humdrum**：单调的；无聊的
>
> **dashboard camera**：车载相机
>
> **spectrum**：光谱；频谱；范围；余象
>
> **stricken**：遇难；患病的；受挫折的；受…侵袭的；遭殃的
>
> **hobbyist**：嗜好成癖者
>
> **cornucopia**：丰富 [文学性]
>
> **unearth**：发现
>

3 Human Rights Watch has analysed satellite imagery to document ethnic cleansing in Myanmar. Nanosatellites tag the automatic identification system of vessels that are fishing illegally. **Amateur** **sleuths**[sluːθ] have helped Europol, the European Union’s policing agency, investigate child sexual exploitation by identifying geographical clues in the background of photographs. Even **hedge fund**s routinely track the movements of company executives in private jets, monitored by a web of amateurs around the world, to predict **merger**s and acquisitions.
OSINT thus **bolster**s civil society, strengthens law enforcement and makes markets more efficient. It can also humble some of the world’s most powerful countries.

> **Nanosatellites**：纳米卫星
>
> ethnic cleansing：zhong3 zu2清洗
>
> **Europol**：欧洲刑警组织
>
> **amateur**：业余运动员；业余爱好者；生手，外行
>
> **sleuths**：侦探 [老式]
>
> **hedge fund**: 对冲基金；避险基金
>
> **bolster**：增强、巩固
>
> **merger**: （企业等的）合并；并购；吸收（如刑法中重罪吸收轻罪）
>

4 In the face of **vehement** denials from the Kremlin, Bellingcat, an investigative group, meticulously demonstrated Russia’s role in the downing of Malaysian Airlines Flight mh17 over Ukraine in 2014, using little more than a handful of photographs, satellite images and elementary geometry. It went on to identify the Russian agents who attempted to **assassinate** Sergei Skripal, a former Russian spy, in England in 2018. amateur analysts and journalists used osint to piece together the full extent of Uyghur **internment** camps in Xinjiang. In recent weeks researchers poring over satellite imagery have spotted China constructing hundreds of nuclear-missile **silo**s in the desert.

> **vehement**：(人) 激动的; (行为或评论) 激烈的
>
> **assassinate**: 暗杀；行刺
>
> **internment** ：政治拘禁
>
> **silo**: 筒仓；（核武器的）发射井;地窖
>

5 Such an **emancipation** of information promises to have profound effects. The decentralised and **egalitarian** nature of osint erodes the power of traditional **arbiters** of truth and falsehood, in particular governments and their spies and soldiers. For those like this newspaper who believe that secrecy can too easily be abused by people in power, osint is welcome.

> **emancipation** ：解放；释放
>
> **egalitarian[iˌɡælɪˈteriən]** ： 平等主义的
>
> **arbiters** ：仲裁人; 裁决机构
>

6 The likelihood that the truth will be uncovered raises the cost of wrongdoing for governments. Although osint might not prevent Russia from invading Ukraine or China from building its **gulag**, it exposes the **flimsiness** of their lies. Eliot Higgins, Bellingcat’s founder, is right when he describes his organisation as “an intelligence agency for the people”. No wonder that Russia’s spy chief **railed** against it, most recently just this month.

> **gulag**：(前苏联的)古拉格劳改营
>
> **flimsiness** : 脆弱；浅薄
>
> **rail**：强烈抗议
>

7 Liberal democracies will also be kept more honest. Citizens will no longer have to take their governments on trust. News outlets will have new ways of **holding them to account.** Today’s open sources and methods would have shone a brighter light on the Bush administration’s accusation in 2003 that Iraq was developing chemical, biological and nuclear weapons. That would have subjected America’s invasion of the country to greater **scrutiny**. It might even have prevented it.

> **holding them to account**：使承担责任
>
> **take on trust**:  不经调查或证实即行接受
>
> **scrutiny**: 详细审查；监视；细看
>

8 Some will warn that osint threatens national security—as when, for example, researchers use data from fitness trackers to reveal remote cia **outposts** and radar satellites to locate American missile-defence systems. But, if osint can tell the world about such things, a country’s enemies are already able to know them. Pretending otherwise does not make states any safer.

> **outposts** ：军事基地; 贸易基地
>

9 Others will point out that osint can be wrong. After the Boston Marathon bombing in 2013 internet users scrutinised the crime scene and identified several suspects. All were innocent bystanders. Or osint could be used by **bad actors** to spread misinformation and conspiracy theories.

> **bad actor**：好做坏事的人
>

10 However, every source of information is **fallible** and the scrutiny of imagery and data is more **empirical** than most of them. Hence, when osint is mistaken or **malign**, competing osint is often the best way to put the record straight. And over time, researchers and investigators can build a reputation for honesty, sound analysis and good judgment, making it easier for people to distinguish trustworthy sources of intelligence from **charlatans**.

> **fallible** ：易犯错误的
>
> **empirical** ：实证的
>
> **malign**: （公开地）诽谤; adj. 有害的；邪恶的；（疾病）恶性的
>
> **put the record**: 披露真相
>
> **charlatans**：假行家
>

11 The greatest worry is that the explosion of data behind open-source investigations also threatens individual privacy. The data generated by phones and sold by brokers let Bellingcat identify the Russian spies who last year poisoned Alexei Navalny, an opposition leader. Similar data were exploited to pick out a senior Catholic priest in America, who resigned last month after his location was linked to his use of Grindr, a gay dating app.

> **A see-through world**
>

12 The privacy of individuals in a digital age is **fraught with** trade-offs. At the level of states and organisations, however, osint promises to be a force for good. It is also unstoppable. Before the invasion of Afghanistan in 2001, America’s government was able to buy up virtually all the relevant commercial satellite imagery. Today too much data are available for that to be possible.

> **fraught with**：充满
>

13 A world where many American, European, Chinese and Russian satellite companies **vie to** sell images is one of mutually assured **surveillance**. This is a future that open societies would be wise to embrace. Tools and communities that can unearth missile silos and unveil spies will make the world less mysterious and a little less dangerous. Information still wants to be free—and osint is on a mission to liberate it. ■

> **vie to**：争相
>
> **surveillance**：监视
>

