---
description: The inclusion of prominent critics on a list of hacking targets embarrasses the government
---

# D528 The Pegasus revelations cast doubt on the health of Indian democracy
> Pegasus:  n. 珀加索斯（希腊神话人物）；诗人的灵感；[天] 飞马座；
 > 
> revelation: n. 启示；揭露；出乎意料的事；被揭露的真相
 > 

1 In ancient **hindu** **lore** a winged horse emerges from the milky **churn** of **primeval** oceans to become the trusted mount of **Indra**, king of the heavens. A later tradition says it was instead Mahabali, lord of the demons, who rode the fabulous **stallion**. Both versions picture a creature **strikingly** like Pegasus, the flying horse of Greek myth, except that the Indian model is fancier. It sports not one but seven heads.

> **hindu**: adj. (Hindu) 印度的；印度教的;n. (Hindu) 印度人；印度教教徒
>
> **lore**: n. 知识；学问；全部传说；（动物的）眼光知识
>
> **churn**: vi. 搅拌；搅动; 翻滚
>
> **primeval** : adj. 原始的；初期的
>
> **Indra**: n. 因陀罗（古印度神话中印度教的主神，主管雷雨）
>
> **stallion**: 雄马; 千里驹
>
> **strikingly** : adv. 显著地，突出地，引人注目地
>

2 Contemporary India’s most powerful men could have used those extra heads. Relying on Pegasus—not the mythical horse but a very modern brand of electronic **spyware**—they seem to have ridden recklessly into danger. A global investigation by a **clutch** of newspapers and **ngo**s, triggered by the leak of some 50,000 phone numbers in ten countries, casts the government of **Narendra Modi** in an ugly light as a presumed client of Pegasus’s Israeli creator, the nso Group.

> **spyware**: 间谍程序/软体
>
> **clutch**: vn. 离合器（踏板）；一群；控制；紧握；
>
> **ngo**: abbr. 非政府组织（Non-Governmental Organization）；民间组织
>
> **Narendra Modi**: 纳伦德拉·莫迪（印度总理）
>

3 The evidence strongly suggests that Indian **spook**s may have slipped the **eavesdropping** software into the mobile phones of hundreds of unsuspecting fellow citizens. The problem is not just that the government may have broken Indian law to do so, or that it may have used the tool to **pry** on intimate private relations. Most disturbing, if true, is the choice of targets.

> spook: n. 鬼；间谍，特工；（尤指无端）让人恐惧的东西；v. 惊吓；
>
> eavesdrop: n. 偷听；窃取
>
> pry: vt. 撬动，撬开; vi. 刺探，探查
>

4 The leaked Pegasus file contains some 1,000 Indian numbers, around 150 of which have so far been identified. Only a handful belong to people who might **conceivably** endanger the state, such as activists in ethnic separatist groups. The list includes numbers used by some 40 journalists who share nothing but a critical **stance** towards Mr Modi’s government. Some belong to Rahul Gandhi, leader of the opposition Congress party, and his personal friends. Others belong to a political consultant credited with state-level wins against Mr Modi’s Bharatiya Janata party (bjp), and to a former top election official who had recommended penalising Mr Modi for **flouting** rules during the 2019 general election, as well as to members of his family. Figures from inside the government may have been targeted, too, among them at least two bjp ministers, senior civil servants and a number of senior security officers.

> **conceivably** : adv. 可以想象的是，可能的是；可以理解的是
>
> **stance**: n. 立场；姿态；位置；准备击球姿势
>
> **flout** : v. 公然藐视，无视；嘲笑
>

5 In another democracy, such a scandal could **topple** a government. Richard Nixon was disgraced for **transgression**s that are **puny** compared with what Pegasus is capable of and may already have been used for. But in Mr Modi’s India things are not so simple.

> **topple**: vi. 倾倒；倒塌；摇摇欲坠; vt. 推翻；颠覆
>
> **transgression**: n. [地质] 海侵；犯罪；违反；逸出;越轨
>
> **puny**: adj. 弱小的；微不足道的；微小的
>

6 For sure, the liberal **commentariat** has erupted in predictable **outrage**, **decrying** the **allege**d snooping as a further **lurch** into **dictatorship**. Congress wants Amit Shah, the home minister, to resign. United for a change, opposition mps have disrupted the lower house of Parliament for more than a week with calls for a debate and an investigation of Pegasus. **Petition**s have been submitted to the Supreme Court demanding an inquiry. One opposition-ruled state, West Bengal, has opened one of its own.

> **commentariat** : 时事分析评论员
>
> **erupt**: vi. 爆发；喷出；发疹；长牙; vt. 爆发；喷出
>
> **outrage**: n. 愤怒，愤慨；暴行；侮辱
>
> **decry**:谴责；诋毁；大声反对
>
> **allege**: 宣称；断言
>
> **lurch**: v. 突然倾斜；蹒跚；突然改变（行为或态度）；n. 突然倾斜；失败，挫折；蹒跚
>
> **dictatorship**: n. 专政；独裁权；独裁者职位
>
> **Petition**：n. 请愿；请愿书；祈求；[法] 诉状
>

7 But the government, **snug** in its parliamentary majority, has so far refused any debate. Mr Modi as usual remains aloof, leaving it to spokesmen to deny any link to Pegasus. bjp attack dogs **dismiss** the affair as a **malicious hoax**. Most of India’s press, beholden in one way or another to government influence, has obediently **played the story down**.

> **snug**：adj. 舒适的；温暖的；紧身的；隐藏的；vt. 使变得温暖舒适；隐藏
>
> **Attack dog**:A person who engages in rhetorical attacks on behalf of another.
>
> **dismiss**: vt. 解散；解雇；开除
>
> **malicious**: adj. 恶意的；恶毒的；蓄意的；怀恨的
>
> **hoax**: n. 恶作剧；骗局；谎报
>
> **play the story down**: 淡化此事
>

8 No wonder they **stayed in line**. Dainik Bhaskar is a media group with newspapers widely read in the Hindi-speaking heartlands where the bjp dominates and which have recently been critical of the government’s handling of covid-19. After they put the scandal on the front page, tax inspectors **raided** the company.

> **stay in line**: 遵守规则；表现良好
>
> **raid**: n. 袭击；突袭；搜捕；抢劫; vi. 突袭
>

9 Perhaps, as so often in Mr Modi’s seven-year **tenure**, cries for accountability will be drowned in India’s turbulent public life. Attention has indeed already shifted to new dramas, such as a land dispute between two bjp-ruled states that erupted into shooting on July 26th, leaving five policemen dead. But it would be sad for India to miss this chance to patch some of the holes in its democracy.

> **tenure**: n. 任期；占有; vt. 授予…终身职位
>

10 India’s spooks have operated behind an unusually thick veil of secrecy since long before Mr Modi began to gather **undue** executive powers. The **Intelligence Bureau**, one of several security agencies, was created in 1887 to snuff out opposition to the British Raj. Its functions seem to have scarcely changed. It is **cocoon**ed from democratic oversight.

> **undue**: adj. 过度的，过分的；不适当的；未到期的
>
> **Intelligence Bureau: **情报局
>
> **cocoon**:  n. 茧；软罩；保护膜；防护层
>
> v.把…包围起来保护, 把……紧紧包住;
>

11 Alas, in the age of Mr Modi, to call for greater public **scrutiny**, if only by empowering a parliamentary committee to monitor intelligence officials, seems as fanciful as to dream of winged horses.

> **scrutiny**: n. 详细审查；监视；细看；选票复查
>

