---
description: The Tories have got the wrong idea about why government isn’t working 
---

# D275+D276 Remaking the state
> 托利党是        英国政党        。产生于17世纪末。19世纪中叶        演变        为        英国保守党        。
 > 

1 The year was 1976 and revolution was in the air. Punk was destroying orthodoxies in the music business. Concorde was breaking the sound barrier. The economy was **going down the tubes**. And Lord Hailsham, a former Conservative Lord Chancellor and old boy of Eton, Oxford and the Rifle Brigade, urged the **overthrow** of what he called Britain’s “elective dictatorship”— the **overweening** executive, whose power, in Britain’s parliamentary model, was **untrammelled** by the checks and balances of the courts and legislature that restrict it in most democracies.

2 Since then, the executive—made up of ministers and the people who do things on their behalf—has been constrained in many ways. The European Union’s powers have grown, and in the 1990s Tony Blair weakened the executive by strengthening other parts of government, creating a Supreme Court, starting a reform of **the House of Lords**, **devolving** power from Westminster and granting independence to the Bank of England.

> 英国的三权分立：立法、行政、司法
>
> Main article: Separation of powers in the United Kingdom
>


3 Now a Conservative counter-revolution is under way, driven by radicals in and around Number 10. They believe that the executive is the expression of the will of the British people, so to limit its power is to **muzzle** democracy. And they complain that government is far too slow. Frustration over the difficulty of getting Brexit done has **fused with** an enthusiasm for Silicon Valley’s mantra—move fast and break things—into a determination to speed government up.
Number 10:10 Downing Street

4 Accordingly, they are pursuing a programme of radical reform to the British state. Brexit is the boldest step, but it is only the first. The Tory plan is to **unchain** the executive by limiting judicial power, pushing back against devolution and reforming the civil service. Dominic Cummings, Boris Johnson’s recently **defenestrated** chief adviser, was one of the architects of this transformation, but it will continue without him (see Britain section).
If you **push back against** something, such as a change or criticism, you refuse to accept it or try to prevent it.

5 Plenty about Britain needs to change, but the reformers’ argument and **direction of travel** are both wrong. First, weakening devolution will not make the union stronger, it will only undermine it. The parliaments in the union’s smaller nations were created in response to a real demand for a government with which their people could identify better than they can with Westminster. Second, liberal democracy is not majoritarianism. It includes checks and balances on executive power designed both to protect the rights of individuals and minorities, and to promote good governance. None of the reformers, it is worth noting, advocates removing the Bank of England’s independence. That’s because of the wealth of evidence showing that constraining politicians’ power over monetary policy leads to better economic management.

6 If evidence were needed against the **unshackling** of the executive, covid-19 has provided it. At the beginning of the pandemic, the government arrogated to itself vast powers, unthinkable in normal times. In some areas, that has worked. Most of what the Treasury has done has been accomplished efficiently and effectively. In others, money has been wasted and **chums** have bagged top jobs and fat contracts. Yet the government has failed to get the job done. Look abroad, meanwhile, for evidence of
the **efficacy** of devolution: powerful, **well-resourced** local authorities have been central to the effort in Germany and South Korea, two of the countries that have managed the pandemic best.

> **arrogate (to yourself) something**
>
> to claim that you have a particular right,  without having the legal right to it
>
> 财政部所做的大多数事情都高效实际的完成了。但在一些领域，钱被浪费了，（部长大臣们的）朋友将热门工作和利润丰厚的合同收入囊中。然而，政府并没有把这个事情做好。
>

7 Brexit is indeed a good moment for a reset. The reformers are right to argue that the civil service needs more expertise, less **churn** and a powerful **cohort** of techies to digitise the operations of government. But their actions to undermine the political independence that gives career civil servants the confidence to say “No, minister” would make governance worse, not better.

> 但是改革者试图削弱政治独立性的行为将会使得管治更差，而不是更好。 这种政治独立性给了职业的公共服务人员底气对部长说“不”
>
> V-T及物动词If something **churns** water, mud, or dust, it moves it about violently. 剧烈搅动
>

8 The main **impediment** to getting things done is not the constraints on the executive but the people running it. Mr Blair was a highly effective prime minister even as he constrained the executive’s power. That was because he was focused and energetic, and surrounded himself with a team of clever, hard-working ministers. Mr Johnson needs to **emulate** him in both of these ways, and should start by replacing incompetent **ideologues** with some of the talented, experienced MPS who have been excluded from the cabinet just because they are not Brexiteers.

9 The Tories are also right to advocate constitutional reform, but their proposals would take the country in precisely the wrong direction. The biggest issue which Mr Johnson will confront next year is Scottish independence. Instead of **alienating** Scots—on November 16th he described devolution as a “disaster”—he should focus on making the relationship work better. The pandemic has shown that the four parts of the United Kingdom struggle to co-operate on common problems. That job is supposed to fall to the joint ministerial committee of the four nations. It needs the power and status to act more like a real federation.

> V-T及物动词If you **alienate** someone, you make them become unfriendly or unsympathetic toward you. 冷落
>
> globalview.cn/html/global/info_32933.html
>

10 Britain should have more devolution, not less. City mayors have had a good pandemic: their popular standing ought to be matched by resources and responsibility. The balance of power between the branches of government needs to shift away from the executive, not towards it. The legislature should have a second chamber with more credibility; that means replacing a selection process for the House of Lords that combines **feudalism** and **cronyism** with an elective one. Turning the Lords into a senate of the devolved nations and the regions would give it a useful dual role. The judges’ power to prevent ministers from acting unlawfully ought to be bolstered, not constrained. Regulators with the independence to insulate business from ministerial **whim** need to be set up to **wield** some of the powers that are returning from Brussels.

> N-VAR有变体名词A **whim** is a wish to do or have something that seems to have no serious reason or purpose behind it, and often occurs suddenly. 突发的念头
>
> V-T及物动词If someone **wields** power, they have it and are able to use it. 掌握 (权力)
>
> **11 L’état, c’est eux**
>
> These changes to the way the executive and the constitution work would both
>
> strengthen British democracy and improve government’s ability to get things done. Restoring the elective dictatorship of half a century ago would not. Concorde, the most memorable relic of 1976, was a thing of beauty, but it was also a commercial disaster that used up huge quantities of taxpayers’ money with virtually no oversight—just the thing for a prime minister with a taste for untrammelled power and grands projets. Mr Johnson would have loved it.
>

