---
description: Prepare for Brexit： the sequel
---

# D754 The Conservatives are planning to overhaul the Human Rights Act
> **sequel**：（书、电影、戏剧等的）续篇，续集；后果，结局
 > 

1 Russian **oligarchs** make good **villain**s. They are rich, powerful and foreign, and their money is sometimes **ill-gotten** and pretty much always **in-your-face**. After Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, mps called for speedy sanctions against those of them who were close to Vladimir Putin. When this took longer than in other European countries, the Conservative government resorted to blaming another favourite **bogey** man: human-rights legislation.

> **villain**：恶棍；反面人物；罪魁祸首
>
> **oligarch**：寡头政治执政者
>
> **ill-gotten**：非法获得的；以不正当手段所得的
>
> **in-your-face**：放肆的; 胆大妄为的 [非正式][usu ADJ n]
>
> **bogey**：让人无缘由担心的 让人无缘由担心的、鼻屎 [英国英语][非正式]
>
> **bogey man**：可怕的人或物；妖怪
>

2 **Crafty** lawyers delaying sanctions provided the perfect **ammunition** for a government that was already set on overhauling Britain’s human-rights regime. The government has proposed **scrapping** the Human Rights Act (hra) and replacing it with a Bill of Rights. Britain would remain a member of the European Convention on Human Rights, which the act incorporates into British law. But judges would be encouraged to settle cases without referring to the **convention**, in the hope that this would make it easier to **deport** people, say, or stop forced marriages. For a glimpse of how this will work out, compare it to Britain’s most recent attempt to alter its relationship with another **pan-European** institution: the European Union (eu).

> **Crafty**：巧妙的；诡计多端的
>
> **ammunition**：弹药；（辩论中可攻击对方的）把柄
>
> **Be set on**：决心要、一心想
>
> **scrap**：取消、放弃
>
> **convention**：习俗；惯例；协定
>
> **deport**：驱逐出境（非本国居民）
>
> **pan-European**：泛欧洲；全欧洲的
>

3 Just as Conservative mps spent decades campaigning to leave the eu, so too have they spent years moaning about the hra. **Binning** it has been Tory policy since 2006. In both cases, **tabloid**s inflamed sentiment. Stories of Brussels bureaucrats interfering in **trivia** such as the curvature of bananas were common. So too, when the hra came into force in 2000, were tales of foreign criminals **wriggling out** of deportation. Outright **fabrication**s were rare. Most of the stories contained a **kernel** of truth, making them harder to **dismiss**. Human rights do allow people who have done bad things to avoid deportation if it would ruin their children’s lives. And obviously the world’s biggest single market has rules on the sale of the world’s second-most popular fruit.

> **Bin** ：扔掉；丢弃
>
> **tabloid**:小报（版面通常比大报小一半）
>
> **curvature**：弯曲，[数] 曲率
>
> **trivia** :琐事；细枝末节
>
> **kernel**:核；中心
>
> **Curvature banana**：The term **euromyth** is used to refer to exaggerated or invented stories about the European Union (EU) and the activities of its institutions, such as purportedly nonsensical EU legislation. Accusations of distorted or untruthful reporting are most commonly directed at conservative and Eurosceptic sections of the British media.[7] Stories can present the European civil service[8] as drafting rules that "defy common sense". Examples cited as Euromyths include stories about rules banning mince pies, prawn cocktail crisps, curved bananas and mushy peas
>
> **wriggle out** :逃避
>
> **fabrication**：加工；虚构
>
> **dismiss**：不予理会
>

4 In both cases, advantages were and are ignored. There was little credit to be gained in Tory circles by saying nice things about the eu. The hra, for its part, had the misfortune to come into force as a Labour government was going through an enthusiastically **illiberal** phase, pledging to detain terrorist suspects without charge for months. It quickly gained the reputation of being a terrorists’ charter. If the timing had been different, so too might have been its image. It was thanks to the hra that the families of 96 football fans who died in the Hillsborough disaster in 1989 finally secured a proper **inquest** more than two decades later. It concluded that deaths earlier ruled accidental had in fact been unlawful.

> **inquest**： (调查死因的) 讯问
>
> **illiberal**：不自由的; 僵化的 [表不满]
>
> **pledge to**：立誓
>
> **Hillsborough disaster**：希尔斯堡惨案，指1989年4月15日在英格兰谢菲尔德的希尔斯堡球场发生的踩踏事故，造成97名利物浦球迷死亡。
>

5 Instead the hra, like the eu, became a **whipping boy**. Government sources were quick to blame “human-rights law” for **sluggishness** in imposing sanctions on oligarchs; they did not explain how governments in the eu had moved more swiftly, despite being covered by the same convention. A lack of preparation for long-expected measures was a more likely **culprit**. Ministers used to hide behind eu law in a similar fashion. Inconvenient demands, such as to remove sales tax from **heating bills**, would be refused by citing eu law. Now such excuses are gone.

> **whip** ：鞭打
>
> **whipping boy**：代罪羔羊
>
> **sluggishness**: 惰性；行动迟缓；低灵敏度；惯性
>
> **culprit**：罪犯；肇事者；犯错的人；引起问题的事物
>
> **heating bill**：暖气费
>

6 Critics of the hra do have a point. So much nonsense is written about human-rights law that genuine concerns are dismissed. At the time of the hra’s introduction, newspapers—from tabloids to **broadsheet**s—worried it would create a privacy law, for the entirely selfish reason that it would make **snooping into** people’s lives harder. They were right. A thousand years of **common law** had not produced such a right in Britain; only after the introduction of the hra did one evolve in successive court cases. Depending on your viewpoint, it is either a long-overdue correction of a disgraceful **omission**, or a **lamentable** invasion by an alien principle. Either way, it is a huge shift.

> **broadsheet**：（尤指严肃的）大幅报纸；单面全版大幅信息，仅印一面的大幅纸张；大开本报纸
>
> **snoop into**：调查、窥探
>
> **lamentable**：悲哀的
>
> **omission**：省略；遗漏；疏忽
>
> **common law：** （英格兰）普通法，习惯法，判例法： a system of laws that have been developed from customs and from decisions made by judges, not created by Parliament.
>

7 In both cases, however, fear of change to the **status quo** is **overblown**. Brexit was sometimes, absurdly, portrayed as the collapse of the Western alliance. Likewise, the convention is painted as a **bulwark** standing between “Weimar Britain” and the rise of **tyranny**. This rings hollow, since both Turkey, a borderline autocracy, and Russia, whose government murders its citizens and invades its neighbours, have signed. As Jonathan Sumption, a former supreme-court judge, has argued, the convention is most influential where it is least required, and ignored where it is most needed.

> **status quo**:现状；原来的状况
>
> **overblow**：过分渲染、夸张
>
> **bulwark**：防护; 堡垒 [oft N 'against/of' n]
>
> **tyranny**:暴虐；苛政
>

8 The proper question, in both cases, is whether change is worthwhile, or simply too much trouble for too little potential gain. Britain may have left the eu in 2020. But the Conservatives have barely used their hard-won regulatory freedom. The situation with human-rights reform is similar, as politicians struggle to say what Britain would do under a different human-rights regime that it cannot do now. In briefings, political advisers describe proposals **reminiscent** of the plots of a comic-book villain to deal with people crossing the Channel in small boats, from holding them in centres in Albania to deploying wave machines. Not just illegality **impede**s such plans; **impracticality** and immorality do, too.

> **impede**:阻碍；阻止
>
> **reminiscent** :使回忆起（人或事）；
>
> **wave machine**：游泳池里的造波机
>
> **impracticality**:不可实行
>
> **Human rights, wronged**
>

9 As with Brexit, plans to overhaul the hra are a displacement activity. Why bother reducing a 60,000-strong backlog of court cases waiting to come to trial, or renovating Britain’s crowded and unhealthy jails, when a minister can wave a new Bill of Rights? In the same way, Brexit was a distraction from Britain’s real troubles, which include slow growth and gaping inequality between London and the regions—and were not caused by the eu.

> **gaping**：(of a hole, wound, etc.) wide open.
>

10 If the government continues down this road, everyone will be unhappy. Human-rights campaigners and lawyers will be **aggrieve**d that a functioning system has been ripped up without good reason. Meanwhile those who reject the very idea of such a convention will be dissatisfied by anything short of abolition. The final similarity between replacing the hra and leaving the eu will be a result that disappoints both supporters and opponents. ■

> **aggrieve**：使悲痛
>

