# DAY 114 The enduring wisdom of “Haroun and the Sea of Stories”
1 “WRITERS AND politicians are natural rivals,” Salman Rushdie (pictured), a British-Indian author, wrote in the London Review of Books in 1982. “Both groups try to make the world in their own images; they fight for the same territory. And the novel is one way of denying the official, politicians’ version of the truth.” Those words proved prescient. “The Satanic Verses”, Mr Rushdie’s novel of 1988 inspired in part by the life of Muhammad, was deemed blasphemous by Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, who in 1989 issued a fatwa ordering his death. Mr Rushdie was forced into hiding for over a decade.

2 In September 1990, a year into his life under 24-hour armed guard, Mr Rushdie published “Haroun and the Sea of Stories”, a children’s book written for his son, Zafar. The novel is designed to be read in one way by youngsters and another by adults. Offset by lively humour, the book explores themes of freedom of speech and censorship; 30 years on, it is still compelling.

3 The novel begins in “a city so ruinously sad that it had forgotten its name”, where Haroun lives with his mother, Soraya, and his father, Rashid, a storyteller known to his friends as “The Ocean of Notions” and to his enemies as “The Shah of Blah”. Rashid is so talented a storyteller that politicians line up with “shiny faces and fake smiles and bags of hard cash” to convince him to appear at their rallies, so that his tales might win them votes. Then Rashid’s wife leaves him for their neighbour, a man with no imagination. Distraught, Haroun asks Rashid: “What’s the use of stories that aren’t even true?” His grieving father is unable to answer. The next time he tries to tell a story, he finds he can only make a choking sound.

4 Much of the joy of Mr Rushdie’s book lies in his playful use of language. He blends Hindi words with the English text, and scatters the narrative with puns, jokes and references to other stories. Determined to restore his father’s creative ability, Haroun travels to a hidden moon called Kahani (Hindi for “story”), which is covered with an ocean of stories, each tale a fluid strand of colour that can intermingle with others to create new ones.

5 Haroun soon finds himself caught up in the war between Kahani’s inhabitants, the Guppees (“gossips”), whose job is to protect and maintain the sea of stories, and the Chupwalas (“quiet fellows”), who live in total silence and darkness. They are ruled by a terrifying master called Khattam-Shud (“completely finished”), “the arch-enemy of all stories, even of language itself”, who fears the power of words so much that he is slowly poisoning the ocean. “Inside every story,” he says, “there lies a world, a story-world, that I cannot rule at all.”

6 The book makes no bones about the fact that stories can be misused in the service of religious or political aims. “Anybody can tell stories. Liars and cheats and crooks, for example,” **one character tells Haroun. To tell stories with “that extra ingredient,” however, a person needs access to the story-waters of Kahani.** Mr Rushdie suggests that traditional stories—the vehicle by which ancient civilisations passed down wisdom from one generation to the next—contain truths that elevate them above mere make-believe. Rashid is hired to appear at rallies because nobody ever believes the politicians, “even though they pretended as hard as they could that they were telling the truth…everybody had complete faith in Rashid, because he always admitted that everything he told them was completely untrue.” Voters, in other words, can tell the difference between hollow political rhetoric and truth, even when that truth is wrapped up in fiction.

7 “It is particularly at times when the state takes reality into its own hands, and sets about distorting it, altering the past to fit its present needs, that the making of the alternative realities of art, including the novel of memory, becomes politicised,” Mr Rushdie wrote in his essay of 1982. “Haroun and the Sea of Stories” is a reminder that although stories can be hijacked by propaganda, they are also powerful weapons in the hands of those seeking to refute political lies. The book teaches children and reminds adults why stories are necessary in a democratic world.

