---
description: Alec Nevala-Lee gives him his due in “Inventor of the Future”
---

# D884 Buckminster Fuller was a prophet of technology
1 Aman **brimming** with big ideas, Buckminster Fuller saw the grand flow of history and sought to direct it into more constructive channels. Among the crises he identified before they entered the popular consciousness were climate change, unaffordable housing and technology-driven unemployment—to which he offered such **tentative** solutions as a fuel-efficient car, mass-produced homes and a universal basic income.

> **brim**【外刊常查】: 【cet6】n. 边, 边缘, (河)边; vt. 注满, 使满溢; vi. 满溢
>
> **tentative**: 【cet6】n. 试验; a. 试验性的, 暂时的
>

2 “My objective”, Fuller wrote with typical **immodesty**, “has been humanity’s comprehensive welfare in the universe.” In pursuit of that goal he crafted not only innovative technologies but new perspectives, coining terms such as “Spaceship Earth”, which encouraged his fellow voyagers to view the planet as a fragile vessel. But it was a ship ultimately capable of being steered by a skilled and **benevolent** captain.

> **immodesty**: 无礼
>
> **benevolent**: 【前24%】a. 善意的, 慈善的
>

3 The scope of Fuller’s ambition was his greatest asset and his greatest weakness. He could be **prescient**, as when, prefiguring today’s anxiety over a workless future, he claimed that “industrialisation is inevitably headed towards automation, that is towards **disenfranchisement** of man as a physical machine.” But his tendency to make great leaps from slight data meant his ideas often lacked solid foundations—much like his geodesic domes, novel structures that soared skywards without apparent support and occasionally came crashing down. One of his less insightful pronouncements was made in April 1940, when he said that, in war, dictatorships necessarily outdo democracies.

> **prescient**: a. 预知的, 有先见之明的
>
> **disenfranchisement**: [法] 剥夺公民权, 剥夺选举权, 剥夺特权
>

4 Fuller’s path to recognition as a **messiah** of salvation-through-technology is an improbable tale of redemption. He was born in 1895 into a distinguished family in Massachusetts (his great-aunt was Margaret Fuller, a Transcendentalist writer); but his father’s early death left him financially and socially insecure. At the age of 32, with a string of disasters behind him—including two expulsions from Harvard, a **chequered** employment history and, most tragically, the death of a young daughter—he stood on the shore of Lake Michigan contemplating suicide. Before he could take the plunge, however, he had a sudden **epiphany**: “You do not belong to you. You belong to the universe…”

> **messiah**: n. 弥赛亚
>
> **chequer**: n. (一粒)棋子, 西洋跳棋, 方格图案, 格子花, 花楸果, 排列成方格式的石头; vt. 把...画/制成方格图案形, 交替变换
>
> **epiphany**: n. 主显节, 出现
>

5 Possessing few skills besides a native gift for geometry and little practical experience beyond collaboration with his father-in-law in a failed building company, Fuller decided to devote himself to bettering the human condition, **embarking on** a journey that led to a series of breakthroughs. These included his aerodynamic Dymaxion car, his prefabricated Wichita House and a new kind of self-supporting architecture based on what he called the “vector **equilibrium**”. It employed a geometric **lattice** that allowed for the efficient distribution of weight and stress.

> **embark on**: 从事, 着手
>
> **equilibrium**: 【cet6】n. 平衡, 平静, 均衡; [化] 平衡
>
> **lattice**: 【cet6】n. 格子, 组合格子, 格子状东西; vt. 制做格子, 使成格子状; [计] 格
>

6 More important than these innovations—which never quite lived up to their transformational promise—were less **tangible** but mind-expanding ideas, which he tossed off with abandon. Among the most fruitful were “ephemeralisation”, the aspiration to do “everything with nothing at all”, which anticipated the information age; and the World Game workshops, which involved scores of young disciples dedicated to a more equitable and sustainable distribution of global resources. Fuller’s tireless efforts to improve society through technology let him appeal to both rebellious youth and the establishment. Although he was **lionised** by the counterculture of the 1960s, its **staunchest** critic, Ronald Reagan, awarded Fuller the Presidential Medal of Freedom before his death in 1983.

> **tangible**【外刊常查】: 【前15%】n. 可触知的东西, 有形资产; a. 可触摸的, 有实体的, 非相像的, 有形的, 明确的
>
> **lionise**: vt.<主英>=**lionize**
>
> **lionize**: vt. 将...以名人待之, 游览...的名胜; vi. 结交名流
>
> **staunch**: 【前24%】vt. 止住, 止血; a. 坚固的, 坚强的, 忠实的, 忠诚的, 不透水的
>

7 Alec Nevala-Lee is a sure-footed guide to a dizzying life. He eschews mythmaking, laying out the way Fuller **burnished** his own legend by rewriting history and slighting the contributions of his collaborators. Clear-eyed about his subject’s faults, Mr Nevala-Lee nevertheless gives him his due as a dazzlingly original thinker. The book’s approach to this protean career is relentlessly **chronological**; incident follows incident at breakneck speed, a structure that captures Fuller’s irrepressible energy but sometimes leaves the reader exhausted. An occasional pause to stand back and view the wider panorama would have helped.

> **burnish**: vt. 擦亮, 打磨, 磨光; vi. 磨光发亮; n. 光辉, 光泽
>
> **chronological**: a. 年代学的, 按时间顺序的, 按照年月顺序的; [计] 编年的, 按年月日顺序的
>

8 Still, the portrait the author paints is **compelling**. Fuller’s life did not quite justify Arthur C. Clarke’s branding of him as “the world’s first engineer-saint”: his ego was too big for **canonisation**. But he comes alive in these pages as a visionary who rose above his imperfections to labour for the benefit of humankind.

> **canonisation**: n. 正式宣布为圣徒
>

