# D314 The show must go on, argues Tamara Rojo of the English National Ballet
1 ALTHOUGH THE phrase is familiar, “the show must go on” usually relates to small disasters: the sore throat of the lead singer, a ballerina **spraining** her ankle just as the curtain is about to go up, a sudden technical failure halfway through a production. But covid-19 is the biggest catastrophe the performing arts have faced in decades, posing a real threat to their future. So the question now is: should and can the show go on? My firm answer is: yes, yes, absolutely yes!

2 We in the cultural and arts sector have for some time been making the financial case for our existence: how every pound of public money invested in the arts turns into £5 returned to the economy; how we support and sustain other industries, such as hospitality and tourism. In Britain, the sector provides more than 350,000 jobs. But there are more profound spiritual, cultural and emotional reasons that are often forgotten, because they are less measurable.

3 We have seen throughout this period of isolation and loneliness that the one thing keeping many people hopeful is indeed the arts. Films, radio, music and plays have all contributed to people’s emotional and psychological well-being. But as the director Sam Mendes has said, “It would be deeply ironic if the streaming services should be making lockdown millions from our finest acting, producing, writing and directing talent, while the very arts culture that nurtured that talent pool is allowed to die.” Whatever the medium, gathering together to share stories and to feel empathy for each other is a necessity deeply **embedded** in our DNA and **intrinsic** to all cultures.

4 I started to share free ballet classes online, from the first day of lockdown. Little did I know that over the ten weeks that I continued to offer classes from my kitchen, sharing them with the world, 4m people would come to join me. From professional dancers to absolute beginners, people found solace, consistency and a reason to get up in the morning in this daily ceremony of doing ballet class together.

5 We had a similarly enthusiastic response when we at the English National Ballet (ENB) started to share our filmed archived performances through our Wednesday Watch Parties, which ended up reaching 1m viewers all around the world. In normal times, no amount of performances we could do in one season would ever reach such a big and diverse audience. People of all backgrounds and traditions connected digitally through the arts and found a moment of **escapism** and joy in an evening at the ballet in their own homes.

6 So, what next? At ENB, after **furloughing** 85% of our workforce, we began to return slowly to the studios, and we started to create. It did not make any financial sense to do so, but it made emotional and artistic sense. And so we created an online platform, we commissioned five pieces of new work, we hired film directors and freelance crews, our musicians started playing again, and we managed to create a full programme of works that people will be able to have access to, once again, digitally.

> furlough: 停薪留职
>

7 As performances with restricted audiences began to be allowed, we announced a series of them, which sold out in only a few hours. These, too, will never make financial sense. But, despite the joy of finding solace in a digital community, live performance is a momentous occasion, a coming together to share the magic of storytelling, and very much at the core of our raison d’être.

> raison d’être： 目的
>

8 In Britain the government’s rescue package has saved many organisations, including our own, until 2021. Yet the financial impact of this period will last far beyond 2021. We need to be able to take risks and invest once again in new shows, in re-hiring our employees and freelancers, and start taking productions **on tour**. For that we need government-backed insurance, in case further covid-19 waves force us to cancel performances. We also need a sector-specific job-retention scheme to ensure that skill and talent is not lost for ever.

> sector-specific: 特定行业（委婉的说舞团的人）
>
> skill and talent: 技艺高超的人才
>
> 最后一句：（我不想失业，赶紧打钱）
>

9 In continental Europe, where arts organisations receive bigger subsidies, the impact will not be as deep and long-lasting. In America, with little or no public funding, wonderful and (in normal times) stable arts organisations and ballet companies are looking at the real possibility of extinction.

10 Necessity can spur innovation, and I am the first to admit that ballet is in need of self-analysis and renovation on many fronts. But this will happen only if companies are able to survive beyond this period with enough spirit and strength to face and create the new future.■

