---
description: Keeping the elderly imprisoned is expensive and often pointless
---

# D507 Why life without parole is nearly always too long
1 How should societies punish those who commit the worst crimes? As fewer countries use the death penalty, more are imposing life sentences. The number of people jailed for life worldwide rose by more than 80% between 2000 and 2014, to nearly half a million.

> **Parole:** 假释；有条件的释放permission that is given to a prisoner to leave prison before the end of their sentence on condition that they behave well
>

2 And a good thing, too, liberals and conservatives might agree. As a punishment for **heinous** crimes, life in prison strikes many as a sensible compromise between the inhumanity of the death penalty and the **leniency** of letting the guilty eventually walk free. The success of that argument is one reason why fewer people are now being put to death.

> **Heinous**: 极恶毒的；道德败坏的
>
> **Leniency**:  宽松；宽大处理；仁慈
>

3 In fact, life sentences can also count as acts of **punitive** excess. They keep people **penned up** long after most of them have lost the capacity or **inclination** to be violent. They are also a poor **deterrent.** Potential criminals are more effectively restrained by a high likelihood of being caught than by a severe punishment.

> **Punitive**:  惩罚性的；刑罚的；处罚的intended as punishment
>
> **Pen up:** to put or keep (a person or animal) in an enclosed area.
>
> **Inclination:** 倾向；倾斜度；趋向；意愿
>
> **Deterrent**：震慑；遏制力
>

4 Although, in America at least, it is cheaper to lock people up for life than to execute them (because **death-row** cases involve endless legal wrangling), old **codgers** make costly prisoners, because of their health problems. By one estimate, they are three times more expensive than younger inmates. Money spent keeping 60- and 70-year-old **ex-thugs** behind bars forever would nearly always prevent more crimes if it were spent instead on better policing, or on **rehabilitation**.

> **Death-row:** 死囚牢房；死囚区the cells in a prison for prisoners who are waiting to be killed as punishment for a serious crime
>
> **Codger:** 有怪癖的人；手抄本
>
> **thugs**：暴徒，ex-thugs：曾经的囚犯
>
> **rehabilitation**：改造
>

5 Life sentences take many forms, of varying severity. Critics should focus on the substance, not the label. Sentences that offer no possibility of parole are far harsher than those that offer a chance of release, however distant. Some ultra-long sentences, by contrast, are no different from life. Alaska does not impose life sentences, but it does jail people for 99 years.

6 Those who want to limit prison terms should start with the cruellest and most **egregious**. These include sentences imposed on children, or for non-violent crimes, as under **“three strikes” laws** in some American states. **Lifers** should not be singled out for harsh treatment as they are in Ukraine, where some are locked in their cells for 23 hours a day. Nor should life sentences be mandatory for particular offences, which bars courts from taking into account any **mitigating** circumstances.

> **egregious[ɪˈɡriːdʒiəs]**：极坏的; 极恶劣的 [正式] [usu ADJ n]
>
> **Lifer**：无期徒刑犯 [非正式]
>
> **“three strikes” laws**: 是美国联邦层级与州层级的法律，要求州法院对于犯第三次（含以上）重罪（英文: felony）的累犯，采用强制性量刑准则（英文: Mandatory sentencing），大幅延长他的监禁时间（wikipedia）
>
> **Mitigating:** 可考虑从轻处置的情节（或因素）
>

7 What about when crimes are shockingly **depraved** or cost many lives? The judge who sentenced Brenton Tarrant for murdering 51 people in 2019 at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, a country that abolished the death penalty in 1989, had **no qualms about throwing** away the key. “Your crimes are so wicked that even if you are **detained** until you die, it will not exhaust the requirements of punishment,” he told Mr Tarrant.

> **depraved**：堕落的
>
> **no qualms about doing something**：做什么事情没有疑虑
>
> **Detained:** 拘留
>
> **throw away the key meaning**：used to suggest that someone who has been put in prison should or will never be released.
>

8 That view is understandable. And yet even in this case life without the possibility of **parole** is wrong. No amount of time can **expiate** Mr Tarrant’s crimes. But prisons are about harm prevention, not expiation.

> **parole**：假释
>
> **expiate**：赎罪[正式]
>

9 A better approach is that of Norway. It sets a maximum sentence of 21 years. However, if a **convict** is still judged to be a danger to society after that time, he can be detained until he is not. Such a rule protects potential victims while also offering the criminal a measure of hope and a reason to reform.

> **convict**：囚犯
>
> **10 Keep the keys**
>
> In 2013 the European Court of Human Rights ruled that all prisoners are entitled to the prospect of eventual release. For a few who remain dangerous in their **dotage**, such as **orchestrators** of **genocide**, that may be too big a risk. But for most murderers, 20-25 years behind bars will prove long enough.
>
> **dotage**：年老体弱 [usu poss N]
>
> **orchestrator**：支持者；管弦乐演奏家；管弦乐编曲家
>
> **genocide**：种族灭绝；灭绝整个种族的大屠杀
>

