---
description: Religious belief really does seem to draw the sting of poverty
---

# D596 Faith and fatalism
> **fatalism**：宿命论
 > 

1 “Religion is the sigh of the oppressed creature…it is the opium of the people.” So wrote Karl Marx in 1844. The idea—not unique to Marx —was that by promising rewards in the next life, religion helps the poor bear their lot in this one.

> **lot**：命运
>

2 A paper published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences by Jana Berkessel of the University of Mannheim, in Germany, and her colleagues takes a statistical look at the claim. Ms Berkessel's curiosity was piqued by a counterintuitive finding in development economics . Researchers know that low socioeconomic status correlates with poor mental health. The assumption was once that, as places became richer, this effect would weaken. Being poor in a rich country was presumed better than being poor in a poor one.

> **Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences**：美国国家科学院院刊
>
> **Mannheim**：德国曼海姆
>
> **socioeconomic**：社会经济(学)的
>
> **pique**：产生(兴趣或好奇心)
>
> **counterintuitive**：反常的；违反直觉的
>
> **presume**: 推测
>

3 But that has turned out not to be true. Abundant evidence suggests the relationship between status and mental health is stronger, not weaker, in rich countries than in poor ones. Ms Berkessel, who studies the psychological effects of religion, noticed that economic development is also inversely correlated with religiosity—the richer a country, the more godless it tends to be. Perhaps that was driving the change?

> **inversely**：相反地
>
> **religiosity**： (过度)虔诚; 宗教狂热 [正式]
>
> **godless**：无神；邪恶的；无神论者的
>

4 To check, she and her colleagues analysed three surveys covering 3.3m people in 156 countries. This set of data reproduced the finding that economic development amplifies the link between mental health and status. It also supported the idea that religiosity could attenuate that effect. Among rich countries, for instance, those with higher levels of self-reported religious belief had a weaker relationship between status and mental health.

> **attenuate**：减弱
>

5 Other evidence buttresses the theory . One study covering 11 European countries, all rich, found the link between personal income and wellbeing was stronger in irreligious places than devout ones . After much statistical crunching, Ms Berkessel concluded that declining religiosity accounted for about half of the effect of growing wealth on the relationship between status and psychological wellbeing.

> **buttress**：支持
>

6 The upshot is that religion seems to protect people from at least some of the unpleasant effects of poverty. Exactly how is less clear. One hypothesis is that religious doctrine is directly protective . After all, many of the world’ s biggest religions have a sceptical attitude to wealth. Alongside the wellknown biblical verses about camels, needles and a rich person’s chance of entering the pearly gates, the researchers point out that the Bhagavad Gita, a Hindu holy book, says “ The demoniac person thinks: So much wealth do I have today, and I will gain more .” Similar sentiments can be found in the Koran and in some Buddhist texts. If God teaches that the wealthy are spiritually corrupt, or will get their comeuppance on Judgment Day, then poverty may seem less of a burden.

> **BhagavadGita**：**薄伽梵颂**，是印度教的重要经典，叙述了印度两大史诗之一《摩诃婆罗多》中的一段对话（位于《毗湿摩篇》的23–40），也简称为神之歌（Gītā）
>
> **verse**:诗；韵文；诗节；歌曲的段落
>
> **demoniac**： 魔鬼的; 魔鬼般的
>
> **comeuppance[kʌmˈʌpəns]**：报应; 罪有应得 [非正式]
>
> "**eye of a needle**" :
>
> The scene takes place in Judea, where Jesus has just finished an illustration about welcoming children into His Kingdom. A rich young man comes up to Jesus and asks Him how to inherit eternal life. Jesus tells the young man to keep God’s commandments, which the man quickly claims to have kept. “What do I still lack?” he asks. (Matthew 19:20)
>
> Jesus answered, “If you want to be perfect, go, sell your possessions and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. Then come, follow me.”
>
> When the young man heard this, he went away sad, because he had great wealth.
>
> Then Jesus said to his disciples, “Truly I tell you, it is hard for someone who is rich to enter the kingdom of heaven. **Again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for someone who is rich to enter the kingdom of God.**” -Matthew 19:21-24
>


7 But there are other possibilities . Ms Berkessel points out that organised religion offers a social support network which might help attenuate the effects of low status, whether or not its members really believe everything their holy texts say about wealth. Her next research project, she says, will look at exactly this point.

> **attenuate**: 稀薄的；细的；减弱的
>

8 In the meantime, if religion really does help relieve poverty ’s burden, one question is what, if anything, to do with that knowledge. The world is, after all, getting steadily richer, meaning relative poverty ’s sting will only get sharper . A cynic might recall another well-known quote about religion, this time from Seneca, a Roman philosopher. “Religion”, he wrote , “is regarded by the common people as true, the wise as false, and the rulers as useful.”

> **Seneca**：塞内卡,古罗马时代著名的斯多亚学派哲学家、政治家、剧作家。塞内卡主张：提高道德、智慧，保持精神上的安宁是人唯一的任务，倡导禁欲主义，要求人们放弃现实生活和欲望，等待神的启示和精神上的解脱。
>

