---
description: Roberto Mancini and Gareth Southgate embody contrasting styles of leadership
---

# D519 The management lessons from football
1 **Squint** during the final of the European football championships and it was possible to imagine that two corporate executives were at work on the **touchline**. One was the sharply dressed Roberto Mancini, manager of Italy, who was often shown angrily **gesticulating** at his team. His rival Gareth Southgate, the England manager, was also dressed in a suit but had a much calmer **demeanour**, often pausing to consult his colleagues.

> **squint**: vi. 眯眼看；斜视；窥视；偏移
>
> **touchline**: n. 边线
>
> **ges'ticulating**: 打手势; 指指点点
>
> **demeanour**：n. 行为；风范
>

2 The two represent different styles of football management. Mr Mancini has a **domineering** approach, **akin** to that of Sir Alex Ferguson, the former manager of Manchester United, who was famous for getting so close to his players that a **tirade** became known as the “hairdryer treatment”. Mr Southgate is a more **emollient** and inclusive character. During the **tournament** he took the time to praise the efforts of some of the **reserve member**s of the squad who never made it on to the pitch. Like many a modern executive, Mr Southgate was promoted from within, managing the England under-21 squad before becoming coach of the senior team. The result was that he had a strong and lasting connection with many of the players.

> **domineering**: adj. 跋扈的；专横的；盛气凌人的
>
> akin: adj. 类似的；同类的；同族的
>
> tirade /taɪˈreɪd: n. 激烈的长篇演说
>
> emollient: adj. 使平静的；润肤的；镇痛的; n. 润肤霜；镇痛膏
>
> tournament: n. 锦标赛，联赛；比赛
>
> **reserve member: 替补队员？？**
>

3 In corporate terms, one could see Mr Mancini as akin to Jack Welch, the legendarily **hard-boiled** former head of General Electric, or the **hard-charging** boss of a private-equity group. In contrast, the style of Mr Southgate resembles that of the new, socially conscious breed of corporate manager. He supported his players when they “took the knee” to protest against racism and wrote a letter to England fans, stating that it was the duty of players “to continue to interact with the public on matters such as equality, inclusivity and racial injustice, while using the power of their voices to help put debates on the table, raise awareness and educate”. It is easy to imagine those **sentiment**s coming from the mouth of Paul Polman, who as boss of **Unilever** championed a sustainable business model for the consumer-goods giant. This does not mean that Mr Southgate lacks a **ruthless** **streak**. One of his first acts as manager was to drop Wayne Rooney, England’s ageing **talisman**, and he has **suspend**ed some of his stars for misbehaviour.

> **hard-boiled** ：adj. 煮过熟了的；不动感情的；无情的
>
> **hard-charging**：努力进取的；有干劲的
>
> **sentiment**：n. 感情，情绪；情操；观点；多愁善感
>
> **Unilever** ：联合利华
>
> **ruthless**：adj. 无情的，残忍的
>
> **streak**：n. 条纹，线条；倾向；（尤指不好的）性格特征
>
> **talisman**： n. 护身符；法宝
>
> **suspend**：vt. 延缓，推迟；使暂停；使悬浮；vi. 悬浮；**禁赛**
>

4 Italy’s eventual victory makes it **tempting** to argue that this proves the greater virtues of a more aggressive style of management pursued by Mr Mancini. After all, the final represented the 34th **consecutive** game under his leadership in which Italy had avoided defeat. This was a complete turnaround after the squad failed to qualify for the 2018 World Cup under Mr Mancini’s **predecessor**. Italy started the tournament with a lower world ranking than England, which also enjoyed home advantage for the match.

> **tempting**：adj. 吸引人的；诱惑人的
>
> **consecutive** ：adj. 连贯的；连续不断的
>
> **predecessor** ：n. 前任，前辈
>

5 But the final was **exceptionally** close. The teams were level after normal time and extra time; had one of England’s penalties hit the inside of the post instead of the outside, the outcome might have been different. Mr Southgate also deserves credit for getting England into a big final for the first time in 55 years, having earlier guided them to a World Cup semi-final in 2018. Under his predecessor, the team was **knocked out** of the 2016 European championships by Iceland, a footballing **minnow**. In a time of **polarisation**, Mr Southgate is widely admired for his politeness and modesty.

> **exceptionally**：adv. 异常地；特殊地；例外地
>
> **knock out**: 敲空；击倒；打破；**淘汰**
>
> **minnow**: n. [鱼] 鲦鱼（一种小淡水鱼）A small and insignificant **person** trying to make a big difference in the world. Usually laughed at for it's pathetic attempts to changing the world.
>
> **polarisation**: n. 偏振；分化；两极化（等于polarization）
>

6 And Mr Mancini’s aggressiveness has led to problems in the past. A year after guiding Manchester City to an English Premier League title in 2012, he was **sacked** over concerns about his habit of harshly criticising his players in public and being “**aloof** and icy” with **backroom** staff. One player texted a journalist “Can we put the **champagne** on ice yet?” on rumours of the manager’s departure. After leaving City, he had three unsuccessful **stints** in club management before taking the Italian job in 2018.

> **aloof** /əˈluːf/: adj. 冷淡的；远离的；冷漠的
>
> **backroom**: n. 密室；后房
>
> **sack**：解雇
>
> **stint**：一段时间
>

7 In the corporate world, the fashion has moved more towards the Southgate style of management. In football as in business, aggressive management can work for a while. But it only succeeds if it is accompanied by other qualities.

8 What unites Messrs Mancini and Southgate is their meticulous attention to detail. And any manager, in football or business, is only as good as the team at their disposal. If either Mr Mancini or Mr Southgate had been in charge of a team from a smaller nation with fewer resources, they would not have made it to the final. As Warren Buffett wisely remarked, “When a management with a reputation for brilliance **tackle**s a business with a reputation for bad economics, it is the reputation of the business that remains intact.”

> **tackle**: v. 应付，处理
>

