# D339 Back to the future
1 Not since George H. W. Bush in 1989 has America **inaugurated** a president so well-known in world affairs as Joe Biden. A former chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, then vice-president for eight years, he has had a role in, or a say on, most foreign policy since the cold war. His chosen foreign-policy team, dominated by other veterans of Barack Obama’s administration such as John Kerry and Tony Blinken—a former secretary of state and a prospective one who has briefed Mr Biden for decades—is almost as well-known. Yet for all these familiar elements Mr Biden’s foreign policy is cloaked in uncertainty.

> 拜登当选备受关注，他的团队主要是奥巴马政府人员。尽管这样，拜登的外交政策仍有不确定性。
>

2 This reflects the altered circumstances in which he has returned to the White House. Having launched his campaign as a continuity candidate, drawn from retirement to defend Mr Obama’s legacy, he faces huge problems that will make his administration very different from the “third Obama term” he initially seemed to promise. One is the **bungled** covid-19 epidemic, which has produced misery at home and more proof of America’s abandonment of global leadership. In the depth of the Iraq war many Europeans thought better of the superpower than they do now. The crisis will also **hamper** Mr Biden’s ability to repair the damage, by ensuring he is largely consumed by fighting fires at home.

> V-T及物动词If someone or something **hampers** you, they make it difficult for you to do what you are trying to do. 妨碍
>
> 白宫已和之前大不一样，拜登所面对的问题使得他无法完全兑现当初所承诺的第三个“奥巴马任期“。 第一个问题是新冠使得美国内忧外患
>

3 The second problem, what to do about China, is more daunting. The president and his team all **subscribe to** the new consensus view that it is a formidable, long-term competitor. Contrary to Republican fears, there is no prospect of them reverting to the Obama administration’s relatively benign vision of coexistence with China. Even those who are **in retrospect** least critical of that approach, such as Mr Blinken, a **suave** and **understated** diplomat, now sound hawkish by 2016 standards. And Mr Biden has appointed his most China-sceptical advisers to the top Asia jobs at the National Security Council and Pentagon. Foremost among this second group—categorised as “the 2021 Democrats” in an astute analysis of Mr Biden’s team by Thomas Wright of the Brookings Institution—is Jake Sullivan, the national security adviser. Yet quite how these Democratic hawks will push back at China, how far Mr Biden will back them, and to what effect, remain to be seen.

> N-VAR有变体名词If there is some **prospect** **of** something happening, there is a possibility that it will happen. 可能性; 前景
>
> ADJ形容词Someone who is **suave** is charming, polite, and elegant, but may be insincere. 圆滑的
>
> ADJ[ADJ n]形容词If you describe a style, colour, or effect as **understated**, you mean that it is simple and plain, and does not attract attention to itself. 简朴的; 不惹眼的
>
> 第二个问题是和中国的关系。拜登及其团队都赞同中国是一个可怕的长久的对手，他们不会采取奥巴马时期的相对和善的共存政策。用2016年的标准评判，团队更加鹰派。但实际采取何种措施，产生何种效果仍有待观察。
>

4 The complexity of the new footing with China that Mr Sullivan and other reformists envision underlies that uncertainty. While many in Congress, from both parties, hanker after the simplicity of an old-fashioned cold war, they want closer co-operation with China on some issues—including public health and climate change, a priority that unites the Democratic coalition—while checking or pulling away from it in other areas, including supply-chains, technology transfers and trade. Mr Biden is, for example, therefore likely to retain some of his predecessors’ tariffs.

> V-T及物动词If something **underlies** a feeling or situation, it is the cause or basis of it. 是…的原因; 是…的基础
>

5 That is also where the Democrat’s long-promised push to rebuild alliances comes in. As an alternative to new trade agreements or joining what remains of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which his team appears to think politically impossible, he is expected to pursue more ad hoc agreements, issue by issue. Whether that will impress America’s allies must also be seen. The eu’s decision to go ahead with its investment agreement with China, after Mr Sullivan hinted it should hold off, points to their scepticism.

> ADJ形容词An **ad hoc** activity or organization is not planned in advance, but is done or formed only because a particular situation has made it necessary. 特别的
>
> point to/towards sth：to make it seem likely that a particular fact is true or that a particular event will happen
>

6 Mr Biden’s and his advisers’ other big ambition is to bring foreign policy and economic policy more into alignment. This is a familiar idea; Warren Christopher once vowed to put an “America desk” in the State Department. But the focus on national competitiveness has made it newly relevant. So has growing enthusiasm for industrial policy in both parties, rooted in loose monetary policy, scepticism about globalisation and a desire to address the economic **grievances** that have contributed to the rise of populism—another new problem Mr Biden must take into account. It is notable that Mr Sullivan, who as Hillary Clinton’s former policy chief carries the scars of Donald Trump’s election, has embraced much of the anti-globalism critique of the Sanders-Warren left.

> N-PROPER专有名词In the United States, **the State Department** is the government department that is concerned with foreign affairs. (美国) 国务院
>
> **The American Desk** is a prospective office for trade deals at the White House announced by president-elect Donald Trump in October 2016.
>

7 Connecting security and economic priorities, the Democrats hope, might also attract the support of Republican hawks such as Marco Rubio, who have taken the same intellectual path, thereby **shoring up** the centre. This is a worthwhile aim, sharpened by the recent illustration on Capitol Hill of how **hard-pressed** the rational right is, and what might follow if it fails. It is also fuelled by concerns about the self-defeating politicisation of recent foreign policy—highlighted by the fact that neither of the two previous administrations **mustered** much bipartisan support for their signature schemes. This is a guarantee of changeable American leadership, off-putting to allies, and guaranteed to fail.

> ADJ[v-link ADJ to-inf]形容词If you will be **hard-pressed** **to** do something, you will have great difficulty doing it. 很难的
>
> DJ形容词If you describe a quality or feature of something as **off-putting**, you mean that it makes you dislike that thing or not want to get involved with it. 令人讨厌的; 让人绕着走的
>

8 Yet though Mr Biden has in essence accepted the Republicans’ thinking on China, it would be remarkable if many did support him. Foreign-policy realism has been largely replaced on the right by a never-say-die hawkishness, which permits no reasonable compromise, perhaps because it is partly intended to score points against the left. Mr Biden’s Middle East policy, which is likely to **hew to** Mr Obama’s commitment to containment and withdrawal, will **antagonise** Republicans especially. But, keen to accelerate Mr Obama’s aborted pivot to Asia, the Democrats will press on. This will probably involve **resuscitating** the Iran nuclear containment deal Mr Trump **abrogated**—triggering a new cycle of partisan sparring, as mystifying to America’s allies as it is self-defeating.

> Such are the ambitions and intellectual currents of the **centre-left** team Mr Biden has assembled. His utterances suggest he has moved with them. Yet the question, which not even his long record can answer, is whether he is committed to the hard policy slog, with few easy wins, that heeding his advisers on China could entail. Especially as events crowd in. Mr Biden starts his presidency with great experience and goodwill. But, in such testing times, the 78-year-old’s leadership may be another source of uncertainty.■
>
> N-COUNT可数名词A particular **current** is a particular feeling, idea, or quality that exists within a group of people. 倾向
>
> V-T[正式]及物动词If you **heed** someone's advice or warning, you pay attention to it and do what they suggest. 注意; 听从
>
> a period of hard work or effort.
>
> slog: a prolonged arduous task or effort
>
> reform will be a hard political slog— M. S. Forbes
>
> V-T[正式]及物动词If one thing **entails** another, it involves it or causes it. 牵连; 导致
>

020 United States - Lexington-9a9c35357e7ac0f2e9f1ce1445dc03fb.mp3

