# D369 How America can rid itself of both carbon and blackouts
1 Texas prides itself on being different. Yet it is in the grip of a winter storm that typifies the Snowmageddon-size problems facing energy in America. Although nobody can be sure if this particular freeze is a sign of climate change, the growing frequency of extreme weather across the country is. Texan infrastructure has **buckled**. The problem is not, as some argue, that Texas has too many renewables. Gas-fired plants and a nuclear reactor were hit, as well as wind turbines. Worse, Texas had too little capacity and its poorly connected grid was unable to import power from elsewhere (see article). Texas shows that America needs both a cleaner grid and a more reliable one.

2 Plans to **overhaul** American energy will **come before** Congress in the next few months. President Joe Biden has said that he wants fossil-fuel emissions from **power generation** to end by 2035 and the economy to be carbon-neutral by 2050. America is not just the world’s second-largest emitter, but also a source of climate-related policy, technology and, potentially, leadership. What is about to unfold in Washington will **set the course** in America for the next decade—and quite possibly beyond.

> **come before**:   be dealt with by a judge or court.
>

3 Time is pressing. Neither Mr Biden nor his successors may get a second chance to **recast** policy on such a scale. Global emissions from fossil fuels and cement production in 2019 were 16% higher than in 2009. It will be even harder to limit climate change to less than 2°C above the pre-industrial level, the global threshold from which America’s target for 2050 comes. To be carbon neutral, the world must curb emissions by 7.6% a year for a decade, a steeper decline than in 2020, when covid-19 cut demand for oil and coal. For America, delaying action to 2030 would nearly double the cost of reaching net zero or, more likely, mean it overshoots its targets.

> from whom 介词提前
>
> 对于美国， 把行动推迟到2030年开始，将会导致达到碳中和的成本接近翻倍，或者，更可能的是他超过他的碳排放目标。（两种可能性，达到2050年目标，成本翻倍。 第二个是无论多少成本，都完不成目标）
>

4 Yet there are grounds for hope. Although the Republican Party is against almost all action, voters are increasingly alarmed by climate change. Two-thirds of them think the federal government is doing too little about it, and that share includes plenty of younger Republicans. Although the fossil-fuel lobby remains powerful, many Republican business donors want more action—partly because asset managers are urging firms to align their strategies with the net-zero world Mr Biden envisions.

5 Most encouraging of all, the costs of power from wind and solar have plunged by 70% and 90% over the past decade. Along with cheap gas, this has already helped America decarbonise at an impressive rate, despite Donald Trump’s **rolling back** of fossil-fuel regulations. Price has not been the only factor; more than half of the states have some sort of clean-energy **mandate**, a **device** that Mr Biden wants to introduce on a national scale.

> **device** :a plan, method, or trick with a particular aim.
>

6 This involves a regulatory framework that favours renewable-energy developments and grid connections to hook them up. It will take a lot of extra investment—about $2.5trn in the coming decade, say researchers at Princeton (see Briefing). In a new book, Bill Gates, a billionaire philanthropist, argues that research is needed into a host of areas such as energy storage, advanced nuclear reactors to complement renewables and technologies for clean concrete-making and other activities that are hard to decarbonise (see article). Without these, even if a clean grid is powering electric cars and light trucks, it will displace only around half of emissions.

7 America is good at innovation, but new ideas need to be deployed at scale, not languish in the lab. One tool is a carbon price which, if it were high enough and if investors believed it would last, would signal what improvements were needed where. But for all its attractions, carbon pricing failed in Congress in 2009. Although many economists and **opinion-makers** on the right favour it, Republican politicians do not. And even if a carbon price were in place, public-private co-operation would still be needed for America to act as fast as Mr Biden proposes.

> opinion-maker : 引导舆论的人；制造舆论的人
>

8 For all those reasons, an ambitious climate-oriented infrastructure bill looks like Mr Biden’s best chance of getting new policy on climate through the Senate. Unfortunately such a plan **will be** **lucky to** attract any Republican votes. Yet, if **mustering** the 60 needed to see off a Senate **filibuster** is improbable, a plan could be stripped of some measures, including a clean-energy standard, and passed with a simple majority through the parliamentary manoeuvre known as reconciliation. The bill must still be of a scale and ambition that matches America’s challenge.

> PHRASE习语If you say that someone **will be lucky** **to** do or get something, you mean that they are very unlikely to do or get it, and will definitely not do or get any more than that. 某人可就走运了 (指不太可能做成)
>
> If you **muster** something such as support, strength, or energy, you gather as much of it as you can in order to do something. 聚集 (支持、力量、精力等)
>
> N-COUNT[美国英语]可数名词A **filibuster** is a long slow speech made to use up time so that a vote cannot be taken and a law cannot be passed. (妨碍立法投票的)冗长发言; 长篇大论
>
> （一）参议院50席是否保证民主党推行理想的政策？
>
> 绝大多数常见法案在参议院表决时，只需要简单多数同意即可。除了弹劾、修宪等极为重要的法案需要绝对多数通过，比如2/3或3/5，其他法案只需要51票即可。这意味着民主党在取得50席位后可以保证在投票阶段通过法案。
>
> 但是，少数党派可以使用阻挠议政工具拖延表决。少数党派在参议院处于劣势时，并非无计可施。相反，针对任意法案表决，均可以通过一个阻挠议政的工具拖延时间，使得投票无法进行，最终流产。2008奥巴马上台后，共和党对大量法案一概阻挠，两年时间内超过300项众议院通过的法案无法得到表决机会。
>
> 绕过阻挠议政的方法中，调节法案被使用的概率较高。阻挠议政并非不可化解，常见方法包括：60席以上参议员同意即可终止，但目前民主党达不到这个要求；使用核选项，但历史上两党对此使用相对谨慎，仅在人事任命上开过口子；调解法案规定了在财政预算方面的法案可以不受阻挠议政干扰，此前奥巴马医改和特朗普减税均以这种形式发布，未来被使用的概率较高；此外总统行政令也给予了一定政策空间。
>

9 Failure to act would bring big risks. For a start, it would make America less competitive in the new clean-energy economy. China is the dominant producer of solar panels and batteries; it has also invested in foreign mines to secure minerals needed for them. Europe has its own “green deal” to boost its clean-energy industries. It plans to tax imports from countries that do not pledge to lower their emissions.

10 America would also be deprived of global influence over climate. It has direct control over only about 10% of the world’s greenhouse-gas **effluvia**. If it wants the benefit of a stabler climate—and with it a stabler world economy, stabler geopolitics and much avoided suffering—it needs to influence the other 90%, too. Mr Biden has appointed John Kerry, a former secretary of state, to **spearhead** that effort (see Lexington). America is to rejoin the Paris agreement on February 19th, making it a full participant in the un conference to be held in Glasgow, in Scotland, in November, when countries will be able to lodge new and more ambitious pledges to cut emissions. If America **tables** goals and gives evidence that it will back them with domestic policy, it will gain influence. China’s two big **development bank**s have **doled** out $51bn for foreign coal plants since 2008. America should be part of a push against such subsidies.

> V-T[journalism]及物动词If someone **spearheads** a campaign or an attack, they lead it. 领导 (一场运动或袭击)
>
> V-T[英国英语]及物动词If someone **tables** a proposal, they say formally that they want it to be discussed at a meeting. 正式提交 (议案)
>
> **dole**： V动词to distribute, esp in small portions (以小份)分配
>
> If someone **tables** a proposal, they say formally that they want it to be discussed at a meeting. 正式提交 (议案)
>
> Chins's development banks: 国开行，农发行，进出口银行   文中指的是国开行和进出口银行
>
> **11 Enough drifting**
>
> Unfortunately, America brings little credibility to action on climate. Mr Trump took pleasure in subverting it, but his country’s poor record precedes him. George W. Bush declined to implement the Kyoto protocol. Congress has not considered serious climate legislation since 2009. Today must be different. There will never be a better chance for Mr Biden to show real ambition. If the blackouts in Texas are any guide, it would not just be the world that would thank him, but Americans, too.
>

