# D290 To ski or not to ski?
1 IT TOOK A pandemic to silence Gerhard Schmiderer. For the past quarter-century, the now 70-year-old “DJ Gerhard” has blasted trashy hits for drunken après-skiers at MooserWirt, a bar in St Anton, an Austrian ski **resort**. This year, however, the speakers will be silent rather than blaring out yet another **rendition** of “The Final Countdown”, a raucous anthem sung by big-haired Swedes. The usual revellers dancing on tables in ski boots will be absent. The 500-metre run back to the resort will no longer be **strewn** with those who have **quaffed** too much and fallen over in the snow.

> N-COUNT可数名词A **resort** is a place where a lot of people spend their holiday. (度假) 胜地
>

2 This sad story is repeated across the rest of Europe’s nearly 4,000 ski resorts. Chairlifts have largely ground to a halt because of the pandemic. Bad memories **linger** from spring, when an outbreak in Ischgl, another Austrian resort, led to at least 6,000 cases in more than 40 different countries. Covid-19 loves ski resorts. People drive or fly in from all over Europe to crowded mountaintop villages. Queues for lifts are packed. Changing rooms are explosions of sweat as **panting** bankers **heave** themselves into **salopettes**. Bars are **bacchanalian**. Yodelling, an efficient way to spread the virus, is not unheard of. As the rich partied in the Alps in March, hospitals overflowed in Lombardy, a few hundred miles away. No one wants to see that again.

3 Agreeing to **write off** the first few weeks of the European ski season until the current wave of the pandemic has passed ought to be uncontroversial. Yet it has triggered a row. France, Germany and Italy all agreed to keep resorts shut until January. Austria was **affronted**. “We will not tell France when to reopen the Louvre,” **harrumphed** one Austrian minister. Bavaria’s premier warned that anyone who crossed the border for a few days on the slopes would face 10 days of quarantine on the way back. Austria eventually **acquiesced**, effectively banning skiing except for local day-trippers until next year. It was, however, a revealing fight.

4 Europeans ski a lot. In total, they spend roughly 200m days a year skiing—about the same as the rest of the world combined. Austria, France and America all **rack up** a similar number of days on the **piste**, despite their vastly different populations. Skiing is a **quintessentially** European invention. Its modern form started in Scandinavia, before it was seized on by 19th-century adventurers. It was commercialised across the Alps, after consumers found being pulled to the top of a mountain a more pleasant experience than **schlepping** up on foot. Each nation brings its own approach: **proficient** Austrians are notorious for taking it seriously; enthusiastic but terrible Dutch skiers much less so. It **speaks to** a certain ideal of Europe, in which it is possible to wake up in France and lunch in Italy. All European life is there at any resort—provided they can afford €1,000-plus for a few days of fun.

> **rack up:汇总**
>

5 Skiing raises mountains of cash. During winter months it generates 4% of Austrian GDP, according to ING, a bank. For comparison, Germany’s mighty car industry makes up 5% of the country’s economy. This explains why Berlin’s demands that Austria **rope off** the slopes for Christmas went down so badly. Imagine if the Austrian chancellor had asked his German counterpart if she would mind temporarily closing the car industry. (There is a climate crisis, after all, Angela.)

6 For a bloc that prides itself on dissolving borders, skiing is a **knotty** issue. Mountains are immovable natural frontiers where questions of sovereignty are heightened. Governments in the EU may have **pooled** sovereignty, but they jealously guard what competences they do have, even if it only involves ski lifts. If resorts in some countries lock down for health reasons, another government could **scoop up** any spare revenue. Normally, EU regulations are supposed to stop such races to the bottom. When it comes to skiing, the EU has no say. As far as officials in Brussels are concerned, that is a bullet dodged. In Europe’s delicate ecosystem, mountain communities sit alongside farmers and fishermen as near-untouchable endangered species to be protected at all costs. Far better to let national politicians **take the hit**.

> **have no say** means have no right to provide an opinion, or that my opinion won't be considered to be important in deciding issue.
>
> **dodge a bullet**：逃过一劫
>

7 After all, there will be a political cost. French resorts can only watch as their Swiss peers—outside the EU and apparently free from any moral obligation not to **shaft** their neighbours—stay open only a few hundred metres down the valley. Nicolas Rubin, the mayor of Chatel, a resort on the French border, **deck**ed his **town hall** out in Swiss flags in protest.
Those who want to keep on skiing have a point. Sliding down a hill with **planks** attached to one’s feet is no riskier, in terms of catching coronavirus, than a cycling trip. (Although bellowing “We’re headin’ for Venus/ And still we stand tall” into the face of a Belgian stranger in a bar at 1,300 metres is another matter.)

> **shaft**:treat (someone) harshly or unfairly.
>
> **deck**:decorate or adorn brightly or festively.
>
> **8 Not going downhill**
>
> Whether families can squeeze in a skiing holiday during a pandemic is a **decadent** debate—and a familiar one. A similar **row** erupted about whether to reopen the continent for tourism over the summer. If the priority had been to eliminate the virus, the answer would have been no. But Europeans could not bear the idea of being stuck at home in August, so they packed their bags and **zipped across** the continent. The consequences were predictable and predicted. **Holidaymakers** spread the virus.
>
> ADJ[表不满]形容词If you say that a person or society is **decadent**, you think that they have low moral standards and are interested mainly in pleasure. 堕落的
>

9 Every polity has **sacred** issues that make rationality leap out of the window. In America, it is guns. In Britain, it is health care. In France, it is food. One such issue is a constant across every European country: politicians **muck about** with holidays **at their peril.** Whether consciously or not, a choice was made in the summer between health and holidays. Holidays won. This time, at least, a more difficult choice has been made. If resorts do fully reopen this season, the Austrian government has **decreed** that the **throbbing** après-ski parties will be banned. MooserWirt may have to wait until things are back to normal. When they are, expect to find a 71-year-old behind the decks. ■

> ADJ形容词You can describe something as **sacred** when it is regarded as too important to be changed or interfered with. 不容更改的; 不容干涉的
>
> V-I[文学性]不及物动词If something **throbs**, it vibrates and makes a steady noise. (有规律地) 震动作响
>
> If 表示即使，即使滑雪场在这个季节全部开放，奥地利政府也已经发布了禁止滑雪后开派对的政策。（出了问题也不能怪政府，和前面的poluticians muck about with holidays at their peril呼应）
>

