---
description: Lack of will is a bigger problem than lack of means
---

# D515 Doping is still too common
1 Eight years ago Lance Armstrong, the winner of an unprecedented seven Tours de France, admitted to using performance-enhancing drugs. His confession **bookended** the “heroic age” of doping in cycling. Between the 1990s and the mid-2000s drug use was widespread and **blatant**. Doping is harder to get away with now than in Mr Armstrong’s day. But cycling’s reputation has never fully recovered. Fans watching this year’s Tour, due to finish in Paris on July 18th, discuss drugs as much as they discuss tactics or which riders are **on form**. Fairly or not, suspicion **dogs** every race.

> **Bookend**：结束
>
> **blatant**：公然的 [强调]
>
> **on form**：挥正常水平；精力充沛
>
> **dog**：(问题、伤病等) 长期困扰
>

2 It is not just cycling. Doping is common in many sports. The Tokyo Olympics start on July 23rd. They will take place without Russia, banned last year for falsifying data in the aftermath of the exposure, in 2015, of an enormous state-sponsored doping programme. The pandemic will force athletes to compete in empty stadiums. Lockdowns, for their part, have disrupted the **regimen** of regular drug tests to which they are subject. Reduced scrutiny will have benefited cheats from all countries. If estimates from former officials are to be believed, more than a thousand of the 11,000 athletes at the games might be chemically enhanced.

> **regimen** ：系统化的方案
>
> The earliest Olympic doping tests were in 1968. The apparent **intractability** of the problem leads some liberals to **throw up their hands** and suggest removing the restrictions entirely. Humans are a technological species, after all. Physics is already allowed to boost performance—think of lighter bikes, or springy shoes—so why not let chemistry **rip**, too?
>
> **Intractability**：棘手；难驾驭
>
> **throw up their hands**：绝望
>
> **let it rip**：尽情地做 [非正式]
>

3 However, many doping drugs have grave side-effects. Athletes dosed with steroids by the East German authorities during the cold war suffered problems including severe liver damage and stunted growth. Women—for whom the drugs were most effective—underwent the irreversible development of male characteristics such as deep voices and body hair. A **free-for-all** would hand victory to those most prepared to take **reckless** quantities of dope. Adult athletes would not be the only ones to suffer. Sports careers begin in childhood, under the dominant eye of ambitious coaches with much to gain and nothing to lose.

> **free-for-all**：多人为所欲为的失控场面
>
> **reckless**：鲁莽的; 不顾后果的
>

4 Better, then, to try to improve policing. Stamping out drugs completely is no more plausible than **stamping out** **burglary**. But anti-doping efforts have made a difference. Drug-takers in all sports have to be subtler and more careful than they once were. Three things would improve the system further.

> **Stamp out**：杜绝
>
> **burglary**：入室盗窃罪
>

5 The first is a change of emphasis. The science of anti-doping has become sophisticated. Tests can detect drugs at levels of just one part per trillion. But intelligence work can be just as useful. **Whistleblowers**, suspicious behaviour and **tip-offs** from pharmaceutical companies have all helped uncover doping scandals in the past. Such efforts should be enhanced.

> **tip-off**：密告
>
> **Whistleblower**：告发者，检举者，吹哨者
>

6 That will require more money, the second change. The World Anti-Doping Agency (wada) is funded by governments and sports bodies. Its annual budget is $40m, less than some top athletes earn. The national agencies that implement wada’s rules have even less to get by with. Sponsors and sports federations are rich enough to **bump that up** considerably.

> **bump up**：抬高 [非正式]
>
> **bump** sth **up meaning**: 1. to increase the amount or size of something:
>

7 The third and biggest task is to bring in new faces. Sports governance can be a **chumocracy** at best; outright corrupt at worst. Catching too many dopers risks tarnishing the product that sports federations and commercial sponsors sell. That creates strong incentives not to “spit in the soup”. Control of anti-doping agencies should be handed to outsiders, such as lawyers or former policemen. The agencies themselves should be as independent as possible, as with the new Athletics Integrity Unit, which polices anti-doping independently of World Athletics, the sport’s governing body.

> **chumocracy**：任人唯亲的现象或制度（尤指统治阶级）
>

8 Change is coming in any case. A new extra-territorial anti-doping law tries to assert American criminal jurisdiction over any event at which American athletes or companies are present. How well it will work is unclear. Anti-doping relies on international co-operation, and other countries are unlikely to appreciate America **throwing its weight around** like a **Greco-Roman wrestler**—especially when its domestic sports (no strangers to doping) are exempt. But the idea might at least encourage reform. The alternative, for all sports, is the **corrosive** doubt under which cyclists in today’s Tour are obliged to **pedal**.

> **in any case**: 无论如何
>
> **throw weight around**：骄横跋扈 ; 滥用权势
>
> **Greco-Roman wrestler**：古典式摔跤
>
> **corrosive**：腐蚀性的
>
> **pedal**：踩 (自行车) 踏板
>

