---
description:  A wave of unrest is coming. Here’s how to avert some of it 
---

# D862 Hungry and angry  
1. Jesus said that man does not live by bread alone. Nonetheless, its scarcity makes people furious. The last time the world suffered a food­price shock like today’s, it helped set off the Arab spring, a wave of uprisings that **oust**ed four presidents and led to horrific civil wars in Syria and Libya. Unfortunately, Vladimir Putin’s invasion of Ukraine has **upend**ed the markets for grain and energy once again. And so unrest is inevitable this year, too.

> **oust**: 驱逐
>
> **upend**: 颠倒
>

2. Soaring food and fuel prices are the most **excruciating** form of inflation. If the prices of furniture or smartphones rise, people can delay a purchase or forgo it. But they cannot stop eating. Likewise, transport costs are **baked into** every physical good, and  most people cannot easily walk to work. So when food and fuel grow dearer, standards of living tend to fall **abruptly**. The pain is most intense for city dwellers in poor countries, who spend a huge part of their income on bread and bus fares. Unlike rural folk, they cannot grow their own crops—but they can **riot**.

> **excruciating** :adj. 折磨人的；使苦恼的
>
> **riot**: 发生骚乱；闹事
>
> **bake into**: 融入
>
> **abruptly**: 突然；立刻
>

3. Many governments want to ease the pain, but are **indebted** and short of cash after covid­19. The average poor country’s public **debt­-to-gdp ratio** is nearly 70% and it is climbing. Poor countries also pay higher interest rates, which are rising. Some of them will find this unsustainable. The IMF says that 41 are in “debt distress” or at high risk of it.

> **indebted**: 负债累累；感恩的
>
> **debt­-to-gdp ratio**: 债务对国内生产总值比率
>

4. Sri Lanka has already defaulted and melted down. Angry and hungry mobs have set fire to vehicles, invaded government buildings and spurred their **reviled** president into pushing out the prime minister, who is his brother. Riots have erupted in Peru over living standards, and India over a plan to cut some jobs for ­life in the army, which **rankle**s when so many yearn for security. Pakistan is urging its citizens to drink less tea to save hard currency. Laos is on the brink of default. Anger at the cost of living doubtless contributed to Colombia’s election of a left­wing radical as president on June 19th (see Americas section).

> **revile**: 辱骂；斥责
>
> **rankle**: 激怒；溃烂；使怨恨
>

5. The Economist has built a statistical model to examine the relationship between food­ and fuel­price inflation and political unrest. It reveals that both have historically been good predictors of mass protests, riots and political violence. If our model’s findings continue to hold true, many countries can expect to see a doubling of unrest this year (see International section).

6. The greatest risk is in places that were already **precarious**: countries such as Jordan and Egypt that depend on food and fuel imports and have **rickety** public finances. Many such places are badly or oppressively governed. In Turkey the supply shock has accelerated **ruinous** inflation caused by **dotty** monetary policy. Around the world, the cost­ of­ living squeeze is adding to people’s grievances and raising the chance that they will take to the streets. This is more likely to turn violent in places with lots of underemployed, single young men. As their purchasing power falls, many will conclude that they will never be able to afford to marry and have a family. Frustrated and humiliated, some will feel they have nothing to lose if they join a riot.

> **precarious**:摇摇欲坠的，不稳固的；（局势）不确定的，危险的
>
> **rickety**: 不结实的；不稳固的
>
> **ruinous**: 无法承担的；破坏性的
>
> **dotty**: 半痴的；低能的slightly crazy or silly
>

7. Another way inflation destabilises societies is by fostering **graft**. When wages do not keep up with prices, officials with needy relatives find it even more tempting to **extort** money from the powerless. This **infuriates** those who are preyed on. Recall that the trigger for the Arab spring was the suicide of a Tunisian **hawker,** who set himself a blaze to protest against constant demands for pay­offs from dirty cops.

> **graft**: 贪污
>
> **extort **: 勒索；强夺
>
> **infuriate**: 激怒
>
> **hawker**: 沿街叫卖者；小贩
>
> **Prey on**: 捕食；掠夺
>

8. If unrest spreads this year, it could add to the economic pain. Investors dislike riots and revolutions. One study finds that a big outbreak of political violence typically knocks a percentage point off gdp 18 months later. The damage is worse when protesters are angry about both politics and the economy combined.

9. Averting the coming explosions will be hard. A good start would be to scrap policies that discourage food production, such as price controls and export **curb**s. Farmers in countries like Tunisia leave fertile land unploughed because they have to sell their crop to the state for a **pittance**. Governments should let farmers reap what they sow. Also, far less grain should be wastefully burned as biofuel (see Graphic detail).

> **curb**:控制，抑制
>
> **pittance**: 微薄的工资；极少的报酬
>

10.  Several countries are asking for **bail­out**s. International financial institutions must strike a tricky balance. Saying no could **spell** chaos—and do lasting harm. But so could bailing out woeful governments, by entrenching bad and unsustainable policies. Bodies such as the imf, whose negotiators arrived in Sri Lanka and Tunisia this week, should be generous but insist on reforms. They should continue to monitor carefully how their money is spent. And they should act swiftly. The longer all this anger is allowed to **fester**, the more likely it is to explode.

> **bail­out**: 保释(被告)；摆脱困境
>
> **spell **: 招致，意味着（通常指坏事）
>
> **fester**:溃烂；化脓
>

