---
description: Carmakers are rethinking supply chains for the electric era
---

# D553 Carmakers and semiconductors
1.The sudden unavailability a decade ago of cars in “tuxedo black”, “rugged brown” or “royal red” highlighted the vulnerability of the industry’s global supply chain. The abrupt closure of the only factory making a vital pigment because of its proximity to the tsunami-hit Fukushima nuclear plant in Japan affected most of the world’s big carmakers. A side-effect of a global pandemic has denied carmakers a more vital component.

> **pin**：按住; 使不能动弹
>
> **tu'xedo**：男士无尾半正式晚礼服；无尾礼服
>
> **abrupt** ：生硬的；突然的；唐突的；陡峭的
>
> **pigment：n**. [物][生化] 色素；颜料 vt. 给…着色 vi. 呈现颜色
>
> **pro'ximity**: 邻近
>
> **tsunami**：海啸
>
> **deny**：拒绝给予
>

2.A shortage of semiconductors has left car firms unable to install the electronics that control entertainment systems, safety features and driving aids. Many have cut assembly-line shifts. Some have temporarily closed factories. Ferdinand Dudenhöffer of the Center Automotive Research, a German think-tank, reckons the bottlenecks will dent forecast worldwide production in 2021 by 5.2m cars, to 74.8m.

> **semiconductor**：半导体
>
> **bottleneck**：瓶颈；障碍物
>
> **dent** ：凹痕；削弱；减少
>

3.Ford’s net profit fell by half in the second quarter, year on year, mainly owing to the chip crunch. Jaguar Land Rover expects sales in the three months to September to be 50% lower than planned. On August 3rd Stellantis, created by the merger of Fiat Chrysler and psa, which owns Peugeot and Citroën, said it would make 1.4m fewer cars in 2021 than expected. (A big Stellantis shareholder is a part-owner of The Economist’s parent company.) The next day General Motors warned the chip crunch will weigh on results in coming quarters. Though car bosses agree the worst is over, shortages are likely to dent output in 2022.

> **merger**: 兼并；吸收合并；并购
>
> **crunch：n**. 咬碎；扎扎地踏;（突发的）不足，短缺；财政困难；关键时刻
>
> vt. 压碎；嘎扎嘎扎的咬嚼；扎扎地踏过
>

4.Expecting weak sales, in 2020 carmakers pared back orders of electronics, and then underestimated the rapidity of recovery this year. When the pandemic boosted demand from makers of electronic devices for those locked down at home, car firms found themselves low in the semiconductor pecking order: although they spent $40bn or so on chips in 2019, that accounted for only a tenth of global demand.

> **Pare back**：消减；削皮；剪；修掉（边等）
>
> **pecking** ：vi. 啄食；扔石头；吹毛求疵；vt. 啄食；扔
>
> **pecking order**：(群体中的)尊卑秩序; 权势等级
>

5.Established car firms also long ago outsourced development of most technology, including electronic subunits, to big suppliers. These “tier 1” suppliers, such as Germany’s Bosch or Denso of Japan, buy circuit boards and microcontrollers to make components from suppliers in the next tier down, which in turn buy semiconductors from chipmakers. This has kept chip firms and car firms at arm’s length. Deloitte, a consultancy, talks of a “lack of visibility up and down the value chain”.

> **established**：老牌的
>
> **circuit board**:电路板
>
> **at arm’s length**: 疏远
>
> An **arm's length** transaction refers to a business deal in which buyers and sellers act independently without one party influencing the other.
>

6.Carmakers’ initial response has been to make more vehicles that require fewer chips, or to use the scarce resources to build their most profitable models. In the long run, the changing nature of the car will force them to think more creatively. Fully electric cars are packed with twice as many chips by value than fossil-fuelled ones, says kpmg, another consultancy. As Pedro Pacheco of Gartner, yet another firm of consultants, points out, software will become a significant source of profits as cars move from a disparate collection of chips to a centralised “brain” connected to the internet that can be updated remotely. In 2019 Tesla made an average of nearly $1,200 per vehicle from selling software updates, Mr Pacheco notes.

> **'disparate**：迥然不同的、多元的
>

7.To ensure that the hardware woes don’t stymie this ambition, carmakers may need to take another leaf from Tesla’s book. The Californian firm has been designing its own chips since 2016, which lets it launch new software-enabled features quickly. Volkswagen’s boss, Herbert Diess, has said that the German giant will develop its own chips and software for autonomous driving: “Software and hardware have to come out of one hand.”

> **woe**:悲哀；痛苦；悲伤；苦恼
>
> **Stymie**: 从中作梗，阻挠；妨碍
>
> **take a leaf from (one)**:To do something in the way one would do it; to behave or act like one.
>

8.For now Volkswagen would like closer relations with chipmakers. So would its rivals. Few have the resources—or inclination—to design chips. Some will still need help developing their own software. Big suppliers, fearful of losing out as carmakers cosy up to chip firms, are being forced to up their game. Bosch, the world’s biggest car-parts maker, has invested €1bn ($1.2bn) in a factory that will start to produce advanced chips for cars later this year. A hiccup over paintwork is one thing. As the industry braces for a more electric and electronic future, it can ill afford to leave its fate in someone else’s hands.

> **inclination**: 倾向，爱好；斜坡
>
> **cosy up**: 靠近
>
> **hiccup**：打嗝、小难题
>
> **ill afford**：负担不起（做某事的后果）
>

