---
description: Climate change is to blame, though the exact mechanism is unclear
---

# D883 The increase in simultaneous heatwaves
1 This week record-breaking temperatures of more than 40°C were forecast in Britain. Schools closed and hospitals cancelled routine appointments. Trains ran less frequently for fear the tracks would **buckle**. The Royal Air Force had to rearrange flights from its biggest air base after the runway melted. In mainland Europe, things were **bleaker** still. After weeks of drought, a heatwave sparked wildfires in France, Greece, Portugal and Spain. Parts of America are **slogging** through one of their hottest summers ever. And swathes of eastern and southern China have seen unusually high temperatures in recent weeks. Why are all of these places suffering extreme heat at the same time?

> **buckle**【外刊常查】: 【前19%】n. 皮带扣, 扣子; vt. 扣住, 使弯曲; vi. 扣住, 变弯曲, 屈服
>
> **slog**: n. 猛击, 苦干, 跋涉; v. 猛击, 苦干
>
> **bleak**【外刊常查】: 【cet6】a. 萧瑟的, 荒凉的, 阴冷的
>

2 Climate change has made heatwaves more frequent, and more brutal. Very hot temperatures that were once rare occur more frequently and heatwaves that were once impossible **come to pass**. The temperatures in Britain this week fit into the second category, says Richard Betts, a climate researcher with the British Met Office. Similarly, modelling carried out by the World Weather Attribution group, a research coalition, found that last year’s unprecedented heatwave in the Pacific Northwest would have been “virtually impossible” without climate change.

> **come to pass**【外刊常查】: 实现；发生
>

3 New records will be set as long as humans continue to burn fossil fuels and destroy carbon-storing ecosystems. This year’s sweltering summer comes in a world that is, on average, 1.1-1.3°C warmer than it was in pre-industrial times. Only the most optimistic assumptions about global action to reduce emissions result in projections of 1.5°C by 2100. In practice, much higher levels of warming are likely.

> **swelter**: vi. 闷热, 被暑气所苦, 汗流浃背; vt. 使闷热, 使热得出汗; n. 闷热
>
> **projection**: 【前10%】n. 发射, 计划, 突出部分, 设计, 推测; [计] 投影
>

4 Heatwaves are also happening in more places simultaneously. A study published by American and Australian researchers this year found that between 1979 and 2019, the average number of days with simultaneous heatwaves in the mid to high latitudes of the northern hemisphere increased from around 20 to 143—about seven times more. The intensity and extent of these **concurrent** events also increased.

> **concurrent**: n. 同时发生的事件; a. 同时发生的, 一致的; [计] 并行的; 并发的; 同时发生的; 共行的
>

5 There are two explanations for this. First, greater odds of a heatwave in any given region at any given time makes simultaneous events more likely. Second, the atmospheric conditions that cause two separate events may be linked. For instance, the same study found that certain patterns of distribution were **cropping up** more frequently: concurrent heatwaves in North America, Europe and central and eastern Asia appear more often than is easily explained by warming alone. Other studies have suggested that climate change may be changing the **undulations** in the **jet streams**—the air currents in the upper atmosphere that move weather patterns from west to east—in a way that causes extreme heat to hit more places at once.

> **crop up**【外刊常查】: 突然出现
>
> **undulation**: n. 波动, 波状弯曲, 起伏; [医] 波动
>
> **jet stream**: 射流, 急流
>

6 Whatever the cause, the consequences are disastrous. Heatwaves kill people and exacerbate existing health conditions. They also cause productivity to plummet. The impacts can **cascade** when multiple areas are affected. Consider food production. Heatwaves can cause crops to suffer, as happened this spring in India. In three northern states, yields probably fell by between 10-35%. If the failure is limited to one region, others can normally make up the shortfall. But if several “breadbasket” areas are affected there will be worldwide shortages, pushing up prices. Disruption caused by the war in Ukraine has shown that such problems can drive inflation and **whip up unrest** throughout the world.

> **whip up**: 激发, 激励; 匆匆做; 当场完成
>
> **cascade**【外刊常查】: 【前24%】n. 小瀑布, 瀑布状物; vi. 成瀑布落下; [计] 层叠, 级联
>

7 Other systems are at risk, too. Heat can disrupt everything from manufacturing to transport. Last week factories in Zhejiang province in China were forced to **ration** power to ensure enough supply for air-conditioners in nearby homes. Drought in Europe has left the Rhine river, a major trade route, inches away from being too shallow for **barges** carrying commodities to pass through it. Heatwaves often stretch energy grids to breaking point. In places where electricity is moved across borders an influx of power from somewhere not affected can help stabilise the grid. But simultaneous heatwaves make that tricky. In an interconnected world, regions rely on each other to cope with disaster. That becomes much harder when the disasters are happening in many places at once.

> **ration**【外刊常查】: 【前24%】n. 定额, 定量, 配给; vt. 配给, 定量供应
>
> **barge**: 【cet6】n. 驳船; vt. 用船运输; vi. 蹒跚, 闯入
>
> **金融时报**:
>
> 本月在欧洲、美国和中国引发火灾、造成交通中断的致命热浪有一个共同点：一种被称为“波数5”(wavenumber 5)的独特形态的高空急流。 原文：The deadly heatwaves that have **fuelled blazes** and caused **transport disruptions** in Europe, the US and China this month have one thing in common: a peculiar shape in the jet stream **dubbed** “wavenumber 5”.
>
> 科学家们正在努力了解控制中纬度地区天气的快速流动**气流带**是否正在发生变化，使热浪更加频繁和持久。
>
> 原文：Scientists are **racing to understand** whether the band of fast-moving air that controls weather in the mid-latitudes is changing **in a way that makes** heatwaves more frequent and persistent.
>
> Scientists are trying to understand whether the rapid-moving airwaves that control weather under the middle atmosphere are shifting, resulting in the heatwaves happening more frequently and persistently.
>
> 雷丁大学(University of Reading)大气科学教授保罗•威廉姆斯(Paul Williams)解释说：“高空急流是我们天气的主要驱动力。高空急流就像传送带，把风暴一个接一个地送到我们这里。”
>
> **气流带**: 气流带
>
> 原文：“The jet stream is the **leading driver** of our weather,” explains Paul Williams, professor of atmospheric science at the University of Reading. “The jet stream is like a conveyor belt, delivering storms to us **one after the other.”**
>
> "Jet stream is a major driving force of our weather", explains Paul Williams, a professor of Atmospheric Science at the University of Reading. "this conveyor belt like air delivers storms to us one after another."
>
> 当它形成一个U型时，也会产生热浪，这个U型气流被称为“欧米茄块”，因为它的形状类似于希腊字母欧米茄。
>
> 原文：It can also generate heatwaves when it **forms into** a U-bend shape, called **an** “omega block” because it **resembles** the shape of the Greek **letter** omega.
>
> When it form U-shape—named as omega-block, as its shape skinning as the Greek alphabet "Ω", it generate heatwaves.
>
> When it forms into U-shape, which is dubbed "omega-block" because the shape like Ω in Greek, it can also produce heatwave.
>
> It causes heatwaves when it forms a U-shape, known as "Omega Block", because it looks like the character Omega in Greek. Ω
>
> It creates heatwaves as well when it is in the shape of “U”, known as “Omega？” because its shape is similar to the Greek letter “Omega”.
>
> 现在，一种由5个大波组成的全球气流模式正在环绕地球，导致各大洲同时出现热浪。这种模式被称为“波数5”，可以持续数周，导致高温地区长时间保持高温。
>
> 原文：Right now, a global pattern **of** five big waves is circling the world, **leading to** simultaneous heatwaves **across** continents. This pattern, known as wavenumber 5, can persist for weeks, causing **hot areas to stay hot** for a long time.
>
> Currently, a global airflow mode made up of 5 big waves is circling around the Earth, causing heatwaves occuring on all continents. Such mode, known as "Wavenumber 5", can last for weeks, causing hot areas to remain high temperature for an extended period of time.
>
> And now, all continents is in heatwaves as a global airflow model consisting of 5 big waves.This, called "wavenumber 5",causing high-temperature areas keep hot for a long time, could maintain several weeks.
>
> At the moment, a global airflow model consisting of 5 big waves is surrounding the earth causing simultaneuous hearwaves in the major continents. This model is called "wavenumber 5" and can huant for weeks maintaining a high temperature in the areas.
>
> A global airflow model, consisting of 5 huge waves, is circling around the earth, causing heatwaves to all the continents. It is known as "wave No.5" which can last for weeks and cause persistent high tempreture in high temperature regions.
>
> 在中国，逾9亿人正在经历热浪，超过70个气象站本月打破了高温纪录。在美国，得克萨斯州和俄克拉何马州正在经历创纪录的高温，超过20个州发布了高温预警。
>
> 原文：In China, more than 900m people are experiencing heatwaves, and more than 70 weather stations have broken records this month. In **the** US, Texas and Oklahoma are experiencing **record-high** daily temperatures, and more than 20 states have **issued** heat warnings.
>
> In China, more than 900m people are experiencing heatwaves, and more than 70 weather stations broke their heat records this month. In the US, Texas and Oklahoma are struggling with high temperatures and more than 20 states have issued high temperature warnings.
>
> In china, more than 900m people are struggling with heatwaves when more than 70 weather stations break temperature records. In America, Texas and Oklahoma are experiencing a high temperature that they have not experienced yet, and more than 20 states issue heat warnings.
>
> In China, more than 900m people are suffering from the heatwaves and more than 70 weather station has hit a record high of temperature. In America, Texas and Oklahoma are experiencing a record breaking high temperature and more than 20 states have release the high temperature warning.
>
> Over 900 million Chinese are enduring heat waves. The record-high temperatures were detected in more than 70 weather stations this month. In US, unprecedented heatwaves are attacking Texas and Oklahoma and more than 20 states have issued heat warnings.
>
> In china, more than 900m people are suffering from heatwave. over 70 weather stations broke their high record this month. In US, Texas and oklahoma are experiencing unprecedent heat . Over 20 states release high temperature alerts.
>

