---
description: How to sell a T-shirts for ＄3.50 and still turn a profit
---

# D554 SchumpeterPrimark's slow fashionistas
> Schumpeter: 熊彼特（美籍奥匈帝国经济学家，当代资产阶级经济学代表人物之一）
 > 

1.Set out for a shopping trip with $100 and you can snap up a pair of Levi’s jeans or half an Hermès necktie. Or you could pop into Primark and fill a wardrobe. The discount purveyor of fast fashion, which is expanding in America from its base in Europe, will flog you a t-shirt for $3.50 and trousers for a tenner. Such prices seem too good to be true to campaigners, who assume they can only be the result of corner-cutting in a sector rife with dodgy labour practices. Rivals such as Zara of Spain and H&M of Sweden, which used to be considered cheap before Primark came along, already run tight ships and squeeze suppliers hard. What is Primark doing so differently that it can sell wares for less and still make money?

> **snap up**：抢购
>
> **purveyor**:承办商；伙食承办商；供应粮食者；供应货物或提供服务的人或公司
>
> **tenner**:十元纸币，十磅纸币
>
> **corner-cutting**: to do something in the easiest, cheapest, or fastest way投机取巧
>
> **flog**：sell or offer for sale.INFORMAL BRITISH
>
> **rife**: 普遍的；流行的；丰富的;(常指坏事) 普遍的; 猖獗的
>
> **dodgy**:狡猾的，逃避的；善于骗人的；躲闪的
>

2.A lot, it turns out. Though Primark looks as if it is in the same trade as its budget rivals, beneath the seams its business model could not be more different. On strategic decisions the firm has zigged when much of the apparel industry has zagged. As other firms try new approaches, such as rejigging their business for the internet age, Primark has doggedly stuck to a stack-it-high-sell-it-cheap approach to retailing that would feel familiar to the manager of its first store, opened in Ireland in 1969. The strategy has limitations, particularly when it comes to new growth. But for now—and notwithstanding the odd pandemic—it is proving its worth.

> **seam**: an underground layer, as of ore or coal.
>
> **zig**: 急转；锯齿形转角
>
> **apparel**: 服装；（尤指正式场合穿的）衣服
>
> **Rejig**:重新装备
>
> **zag**：急转；急变；急弯
>
> **doggedly**:固执地；勤奋
>
> **notwithstanding**: 尽管，虽然
>

3.The giants of fast fashion have grown by embracing speed. Starting in the 2000s Inditex, which owns Zara, made a name for itself by raising the metabolism of the apparel sector. Previously shoppers had to wait entire seasons for high-street brands to replicate the catwalk’s new looks. It took at least that long to get fresh frocks made and shipped from distant Asian factories with long lead times. Zara stole a march on the industry by manufacturing some of its collection in Europe, allowing it to get designs in shops in just a few weeks. Like a hot pair of heels, the business model was soon aped across the industry. When impatient consumers moved online, Zara, H&M and others hurriedly followed them there—never mind the iffy economics of home delivery.

> **high-street brands**：高街品牌
>
> 高街品牌最早是指那些英国主要商业街的商店、仿造T型台时尚秀上所展示的时装，迅速制作为成品销售、让人人都能买到的品牌。
>
> **Catwalk**: 猫步；狭小通道；桥上人行道
>
> **Frock**:女装；连衣裙；僧袍；罩袍
>
> **steal a march**：先发制人
>
> **ape**：仿效；（尤指笨拙地）模仿
>
> **hurriedly** :匆忙地；仓促地
>
> **home delivery**:送货上门；宅配
>
> **iffy**: 未确定的；富于偶然性的；可疑的
>

4.Primark, which is part of Associated British Foods, a conglomerate worth £16bn ($22bn) that also sells bread and Twinings tea, has stayed in the slower lane. Its bet is, broadly, that shoppers will accept being a little less cutting-edge in return for big savings. Designs are simple to keep stitching costs down. Where fancier rivals boast that every shop has a unique assortment of regularly updated goods, Primark orders millions of the same frocks months before they arrive on the shelves. That is a lifetime in the age of Instagram influencers. But it lets Primark charge frock-bottom prices.

> **Conglomerate**:企业集团；聚合物；砾岩
>
> **Lane**:小巷；[航][水运] 航线；车道；罚球区
>
> **assortment**:分类；混合物
>
> **lifetime**：寿命；生存期
>

5.This strategy allows it to concentrate manufacturing in lower-cost countries, notably Bangladesh, where monthly wages in the garment sector start at around $100. These are often the same factories used by other global retailers, which ought to blunt criticism that Primark is an outlier when it comes to labour practices. The firm does sensible things like limit subcontracting and conducts lots of audits to ensure working conditions are adequate. And its slower approach means orders can be placed in fashion’s off-peak periods, when factories are grateful for the work. Manufacturers know they can keep staff busy stitching Primark dresses during lean weeks, while slotting in more lucrative short-turnaround runs for less patient brands. Clothes are shipped to end markets by the slow boat.

> **Bangladesh**:孟加拉国
>
> **garment**:衣服，服装；外表，外观
>
> **blunt**: 尖锐的、钝器; 使减弱
>
> **subcontract**:分包
>
> **outlier** :离开主体的人（或物）；（地质）外露层；（统计）异常值；局外人（远离业务、职务）
>
> **off-peak**: 非高峰期的；淡季的
>
> **slot in**: 投放、装入、塞进、插入
>
> **lucrative** :获利多的
>

6.The cost savings are passed on to consumers, with some left over for shareholders. Before the pandemic jumbled up everyone’s books Primark reported a gross margin—sales minus the cost of stuff sold—of 41%. That is well short of Inditex’s 57% or H&M’s 53%. But Primark’s parsimonious nature extends to operating expenses. It has relentlessly squeezed the costs of marketing and selling goods. Factor this in and it ends up with an “ebit” margin of around 12%—in line with the industry standard.

> **parsimonious**: 吝啬的；过于节俭的；质量差的
>
> **ebit**：息税前利润(earnings before interest and tax)
>

7.Some of this is down to common-or-garden penny-pinching. While H&M spends 4% of total sales on marketing, Primark runs almost no ads. In an industry that often discounts, which crimps margins, Primark assumes its prices are already low enough. Outside Britain its outlets are enormous—on average, nearly six times the size of those run by Inditex—and often in out-of-town malls where rents are cheap. The jumble-emporium vibe they exude works: Primark sells about ten times as many items as H&M per square metre of shop, according to Aneesha Sherman of Bernstein, a broker. On a recent visit, a young shopper in front of Schumpeter in the queue to the fitting rooms took in 14 items.

> **common-or-garden**: 普普通通的
>
> **penny-pinching**：小气的，吝啬的
>
> **crimp**: 烫发，使卷曲；使有褶；阻碍……的发展；
>
> **jumble**: 混乱；杂乱的一堆东西
>
> **emporium**: 商场，大百货商店；商业中心
>
> **vibe** :气氛，氛围
>
> **exude** : 散发；流出；使渗出
>

8.Where Primark has strayed furthest from the fashion pack is in its refusal to sell anything online, which it sees as unfeasible at its price points. That has kept margins plump as the company avoided a wodge of spending on developing apps and fulfilment capabilities. The lack of an online presence meant that Primark lost up to 100% of sales as the pandemic shut shops around the world. Extended closures, especially in Britain, home to about half of its 380 outlets, cost it £3bn in sales and perhaps £1bn in profit.

> **unfeasible**:不可行的；难以实现的
>
> **a wodge of**：一大堆
>
> **Hare-brained or smart as a tortoise?**
>
> **Hare-brained**: 轻率的，浮躁的
>
> **tortoise: 陆龟**
>

9.Primark’s cost-slashing strategy is so multifaceted as to be virtually impossible for rivals to replicate, argues Ms Sherman. Still, its idiosyncrasies hit limits of their own. The pace of expansion of shops, which is limited to Europe and America, feels glacial to investors—but go any faster and the model’s delicate economics may stop working. Critics wonder about the environmental sustainability of $1 knickers. And new online rivals look menacing, particularly Shein, a fast-growing Chinese super-discounter.

> **multifaceted**:多方面的；要从多方面考虑的
>
> **idiosyncrasies**:  习性; 癖好; 特性
>
> **glacial**:  非常缓慢的
>
> **knicker**:  短裤; 热裤
>
> **menacing**:  来势汹汹;威胁的;恐吓;险恶的
>

10.Yet the queues outside Primark shops as they reopened after shutdowns suggest that some punters cannot wait to splurge in person. Sales are now higher than before the pandemic, helped by the covid-linked disappearance of some once-fearsome rivals, such as Topshop in Britain. In the world of fast fashion, slow, steady and cheap can be a winning strategy.

> **punter**:客户; 顾客 [英国英语] [非正式]、船夫，用篙撑船的人；赌博者
>
> **splurge**:挥霍；乱花钱
>

