---
description: Nearly $2trn in shareholder wealth is on the line
---

# D510 China seems intent on decoupling its companies from Western markets
> intent: adj. 专心的；急切的；坚决的
 > 
> decouple: vt. 减弱震波；使分离
 > 

1 Cheng wei, the billionaire founder and chief executive of Didi Global, had scarcely a moment to **revel** in his firm’s $4.4bn New York listing. Within 48 hours of the initial public offering (ipo), which valued the Chinese **ride-hailing** giant at around $70bn, regulators in Beijing spoiled the party. On July 2nd the Cyberspace Administration of China (cac) said it had launched an investigation into the company. The announcement **shaved** 5% **off** its share price.

> **revel**: vi. 狂欢；陶醉
>
> **ride-hailing**: 打车服务，叫车服务
>
> **Shave off**：少量削减; 略微降低，as a record, cost, or price,
>

2 Two days later the regulator ordered Didi’s mobile app to be pulled from app stores in China, **halting** new customers from joining the service (existing users can still hail taxis). The cac **alleges** that Didi was illegally collecting and using personal data. Didi said that it would “strive to **rectify** any problems” but warned of “an adverse impact on its revenue in China”. Predictably, the ban also adversely affected the company’s market value. When American markets reopened on July 6th, Didi promptly **shed** more than a fifth of it. It is now worth $22bn less than a week go.

> **halting**: adj. 犹豫的；蹒跚的；跛的; v. 停止；蹒跚；犹豫（halt的ing形式）
>
> **allege**: vt. 宣称，断言
>
> **rectify**：矫正; 改正
>
> **shed: **摆脱；去除；落
>

3 The cac’s move is an **escalation** in China’s **crackdown** on big technology firms. On July 5th it told three other apps—Yunmanman and Huochebang, which operate **lorry**-hailing and cargo apps, and Boss Zhipin, an internet recruitment service—to stop enlisting new users. The trucking services, which merged under the name Full Truck Alliance, and Kanzhun, which owns Boss Zhipin, had together raised $2.5bn in American **flotations** last month.

> **Crackdown**: 严厉的打击；镇压
>
> **escalation**: n. 增加；扩大；逐步上升
>
> **Wolf warrior of Wall Street**
>
> **lorry**：卡车
>
> **flotation**:（公司）首次公开发行股票
>

4 **All told**, Chinese firms have raised $13bn in America so far this year, and $76bn over the past decade. Around 400 Chinese companies have American listings, roughly twice as many as in 2016. In that period their combined stockmarket value has shot up from less than $400bn to $1.7trn. Those investments are now in peril. On July 6th Chinese authorities said they would tighten rules for firms with foreign listings, or those seeking them. It is the **starkest** effort yet to disconnect China **Inc** from American capital markets.

> **All told**: 总计,一共
>
> **Stark**: adj. 完全的；荒凉的；严酷的；
>
> **Inc**: abbr. 股份有限公司（incorporated）
>

5 Besides regulating what corporate data can and cannot be shared with foreigners, the new rules would target “illegal securities activities” and create **extraterritorial laws** to govern Chinese firms with foreign listings. According to Bloomberg, a news service, Chinese regulators also want to restrict the use of offshore legal structures that help Chinese companies **skirt** local limits on foreign ownership.

> **extraterritorial**: adj. 治外法权的；不受管辖的；在疆界以外的
>
> **extraterritorial law:** 治外法
>
> **skirt**：沿…的边缘走；绕开
>

6 Nearly all Chinese tech giants listed in America, including Alibaba, a $570bn e-merchant, as well as Didi, use such “variable-interest entities” (VIEs). A **vie** is **domiciled** in a tax haven like the **Cayman Islands**, and accepts foreigners as investors. It then sets up a subsidiary in China, which receives **a share of** the profits of the Chinese firm using the structure. China’s government has long **implicitly** supported this tenuous arrangement, upon which hundreds of billions of dollars of American investments rely. Now it wants Chinese firms to seek **explicit** approval for the structure. The assumption is that Beijing would be hesitant to grant it. Existing VIEs may also come under **scrutiny**.

> **vie**: 网络可变利益实体
>
> **domicil**: v. 定居，居住；以……为基地
>
> **Cayman Islands**：开曼群岛
>
> **implicitly**: 暗中；暗含；含蓄地
>
> **explicit**: adj. 明确的；清楚的；直率的
>
> **scrutiny**: n. 详细审查；监视；细看；选票复查
>
> **a share of**：一份
>

7 A formal **blessing** from Beijing may help avoid the sort of **kerfuffle** Didi has found itself in. In April the firm was among 30 companies called in by the cac and the State Administration of Taxation. It was given a month to conduct a **sprawling** self-inspection. It added a warning that it “cannot assure [investors] that the regulatory authorities will be satisfied with our self-inspection results” to the risks listed in its **prospectus**, alongside antitrust, pricing, privacy protection, food safety, product quality and taxes. It went ahead with its New York ipo regardless. Punishing the company right after its listing looks like deliberate **retaliation** for **pressing on** before the regulators were done with their **probing**, says Angela Zhang of the University of Hong Kong. Didi’s new public investors were badly burnt as a result, just as the private investors in Ant Group were in November, when the financial-technology firm’s $37bn ipo was suspended two days before its shares were due to begin trading in Hong Kong and Shanghai.

> **blessing**：同意; 支持 [with poss]
>
> **kerfuffle**[kərˈfʌfl]： 混乱 [英国英语] [非正式]
>
> **pro'spectus**：(公司或学校的) 介绍说明文件; 简介；（企业的）招股说明书
>
> **sprawling**: adj. 蔓延的，杂乱延伸的、庞大的
>
> **retaliation**: n. 报复；反击；回敬
>
> **press on**：强加于；向前推进
>
> **probing**: v. 探查；调查， 探究
>

8 All this is chilling both Chinese firms’ appetite for foreign listings and foreign investors’ hunger for Chinese stocks, and not just in America. The day after the Didi ban the four biggest tech groups with listings in Hong Kong—Tencent, Alibaba (which has a dual listing), Meituan and Kuaishou—lost a collective $60bn in market capitalisation. The effects on some of the world’s most innovative and value-generating companies of the past decade may be **crippling**, especially in conjunction with greater scrutiny of Chinese companies by America’s government.

> **crippling** : adj. 造成严重后果的
>

9 American regulators have long sought to force Chinese companies listed on America’s **bourses** to submit auditing documents to an oversight body called the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. In December Congress passed a law that would require such disclosures with **bipartisan** support. At the same time, Chinese regulators have refused to permit Chinese companies to make such disclosures, declaring auditing documents to be state secrets. If the **standoff** does not ease, Chinese groups could eventually be forced to **delist** from America.

> **bourse**: 交易所
>
> **bipartisan：adj**. 两党连立的；代表两党的
>
> **standoff**: n. 和局；僵持；冷淡；平衡
>
> **Delist:** 【股】停牌；除牌；从表上剔除
>

10 So far there is no sign of easing. Before Didi’s ipo, Marco Rubio, a Republican senator from Florida, called on America’s Securities and Exchange Commission to block the transaction. He **fumed** that the flotation “**funnels** desperately needed us dollars into Beijing and puts the investments of American retirees at risk”. This week he called the decision to let the ipo go ahead “reckless and irresponsible”. President Joe Biden is less **strident** but his Democratic Party also wants to **curb** China’s economic and technological might.

> **fume**：表达气愤
>
> **funnel**: 漏斗；漏斗状物；烟囱
>
> **strident**: adj. 刺耳的；尖锐的；
>
> **curb**: n. 抑制；路边；勒马绳
>

11 As the **symbiotic** relationship between Chinese firms and American investors **unravel**s, both will suffer. The former are losing access to the world’s deepest capital markets, the latter to some of its hottest stocks. The market value of Chinese firms in America has fallen by 6% since the Ant **debacle** last autumn signalled a shift of mood in Beijing, even as the s&p 500 index of big firms has gained 30% as a whole. Didi won’t be the last casualty.

> **Symbiotic**: 共栖的；共生的
>
> **unravels**: vt. 解开；阐明；解决；拆散
>
> **debacle**: n. 崩溃；灾害；解冻
>

