# D367 Mario Draghi begins the toughest job in European politics
1 Markets have a way of bowing before Mario Draghi, who on February 13th took charge of Italy’s 68th government in 75 years. Stocks soared the moment it was reported he had been asked to become prime minister. Three days after he took office, investors flocked to a bond auction, **slashing** Italy’s borrowing costs. It was reminiscent of the hot days in July 2012 when Mr Draghi, then president of the European Central Bank, vowed to do “whatever it takes” to preserve the **embattled** euro. The bond-buying scheme the ecb assembled to render Mr Draghi’s promise credible was never used: his words were enough to calm the financial furies.

> V-T[journalism]及物动词To **slash** something such as costs or jobs means to reduce them by a large amount. 大幅度削减
>
> If you describe a person, group, or organization as **embattled**, you mean that they are having a lot of problems or difficulties. 问题缠身的; 处于困境的
>

2 But tackling Italy’s problems demands more than rhetoric. Ravaged by the pandemic, on current projections Italy will not regain its pre-crisis gdp until 2023. And its covid-19 woes are layered atop deeper **pathologies** of slow growth, low productivity and high debt that have largely defeated the efforts of successive governments. “We all know the reform priorities,” says Marco Valli, an economist at UniCredit, an Italian bank. “The question is, will Draghi be able to fast-track the badly needed ones?”

3 The cards may seem stacked against him. Italy has burned through six prime ministers in the past decade; not since 2008 have voters themselves chosen one. The obvious cautionary tale is that of another non-politician in whom Europeans invested high hopes: Mario Monti, a former eu competition commissioner elevated into the job in 2011 after soaring bond yields **toppled** Silvio Berlusconi. He lasted only 18 months in office, and his reforms to pensions were later **watered down**.

> If someone or something **topples** somewhere or if you **topple** them, they become unsteady or unstable and fall over. 倒下
>
> **watered down**: 冲淡的，打折扣的
>
> 形势似乎对他很不利。
>

4 Yet there is a bullish case for Mr Draghi. The legacy of his bond-buying activism at the ecb, and that of Christine Lagarde, his successor, should keep markets calm as he pursues tricky reforms. For the moment, voters seem less **restive**; Mr Draghi takes office with sky-high approval ratings. And whereas Mr Monti faced tough calls to slash spending, Mr Draghi’s government will be charged with allocating Italy’s share of the €750bn ($900bn) covid-19 recovery plan agreed on by the eu last summer. This could amount to more than €200bn in grants and loans over six years.

> If you are **restive**, you are impatient, bored, or dissatisfied. 不耐烦的; 感到厌烦的; 不满的
>

5 This is essential to understanding what amounted to a government of national **salvation** unveiled by Mr Draghi on February 12th. Its members range from the radical left to the hard-right Northern League, a party whose populist leader, Matteo Salvini, **blithely** ditched its Euroscepticism in exchange for seats at Mr Draghi’s table. That bears witness to the drawing power of “Super Mario”, the man who saved the euro, but even more to the **largesse** **coming Italy’s way**. How Mr Draghi chooses to dispense it will be crucial.

> **blithely**:快活地；无忧无虑地
>
> N-UNCOUNT[正式]不可数名词**Largesse** is a generous gift of money or a generous act of kindness. 慷慨捐助; 善举
>
> **COME SOMEONE'S WAY** (phrase): happening to someone or becoming available.
>

6 He offered his first hints during an address to Italy’s Senate on February 17th. The new prime minister promised to **tweak** the recovery plan drafted by the government of Giuseppe Conte, his predecessor, especially the part dedicated to environmental objectives—to which 37% of the recovery funds must be devoted. Final plans must be submitted to the European Commission by the end of April. Mr Draghi said his government would pay close attention to whether Italy’s proposed investment projects could be completed by 2026, when the last of the funds will be **disbursed**, but added that they should fit into a strategy aiming at 2050, when the eu’s net carbon emissions are meant to reach zero.

7 Although 15 of the 24 places at Mr Draghi’s cabinet table will go to politicians from the various parties in his coalition, the ministries that will execute Italy’s recovery plan will mainly be led by technocrats. Three stand out. Roberto Cingolani, a physicist with a background in robotics and nanotech, will run a super-ministry devoted to ecological transition. Vittorio Colao, a former Vodafone boss, will oversee digital and technological matters. Daniele Franco, the new finance minister, comes from Italy’s central bank. All three have managerial as well as technical expertise. Such appointments, says Mr Valli, show that “Mr Draghi wants his people in charge” of the recovery fund. At the ecb he was often keener on executing good policy than in **winning over** critics.

8 In his Senate address Mr Draghi also promised to speed up vaccination, and to begin a comprehensive overhaul of the income-tax system. He pledged to promote female employment and to narrow one of Europe’s widest pay gaps between men and women. Other areas for reform were the judicial system and public administration. Much of this will please officials in Brussels, who saw in Mr Conte’s draft plan more ambition on spending proposals than the reform that Italy’s huge debt stock (see chart) makes **imperative**. Paolo Gentiloni, the European commissioner charged with overseeing the recovery plans, is himself a former Italian prime minister who understands the country’s roadblocks to reform.

> If it is **imperative** that something be done, that thing is extremely important and must be done. 至关重要的，事在必行的
>

9 After decades in public service (plus a **stint** at Goldman Sachs), Mr Draghi’s new job marks the 73-year-old’s first **foray** into democratic politics. But the “technocrat” label conceals as much as it describes. He displayed sharp political instincts during the euro crisis, preparing the ground for policy shifts like the start of **quantitative easing**, and he **outflanked** critics like Jens Weidmann, the hawkish head of the Bundesbank. German conservatives **detested** his dovishness but failed to halt his policies. On leaving office in 2019 Mr Draghi was showered with praise by Chancellor Angela Merkel, and was awarded Germany’s Order of Merit, its highest civilian honour. Most of Europe’s leaders, whom he will meet (virtually) at a summit on February 25th, know and respect him. “The gut feeling is that someone like Draghi won’t **blow it**,” says a German official.

> A **stint** is a period of time which you spend doing a particular job or activity or working in a particular place. 一段时间
>
> If you make a **foray** **into** a new or unfamiliar type of activity, you start to become involved in it. 涉足
>
> If you **outflank** someone, you succeed in getting into a position where you can defeat them, for example, in an argument. 占...的上风
>
> If you **detest** someone or something, you dislike them very much. 憎恶
>
> **blow it** : **To mess** up, but not **in a big way**. 搞砸
>
> 联邦十字勋章，也称做德意志联邦共和国勋章，设立于1951年。由德国联邦总统颁发的勋章，用以表彰在德国政治、经济和社会文化方面做出重大贡献的人士。
>

10 All this should help him manage what is likely to be a short-lived administration (an election is due by June 2023.) Still, the **snake pit** of Italian politics poses a new sort of test. Apart from the League and Mr Berlusconi’s Forza Italia, Mr Draghi’s cabinet unites representatives of the **heterogeneous** Five Star Movement and three leftist parties. “Unity is not an option; unity is a duty,” the new prime minister warned parliament this week. But a quarter of the Five Star lawmakers failed to support him in his first Senate confidence vote. And squabbles have already erupted, over picking junior ministers and closing ski slopes. They will not be the last.

> **snake pit **: **疯人院**
>
> ADJ[正式][usu ADJ n]形容词A **heterogeneous** group consists of many different types of things or people. 由很多种类组成的
>

