# D608 A short history of Hollywood’s poison-pen letters to itself
1 Hollywood loves making films about the movie industry. In this genre, the peculiarities of Tinseltown are sent up—from the enormous egos of the stars to the preciousness of the screenwriters—but the message is that there really is no business like show business. “Sullivan’s Travels” (1941), for example, ridicules its protagonist, a socially liberal director who wants to make serious films; in the end Sullivan (Joel McCrea) realises that what the disenfranchised really want is not some bleak drama but an escapist comedy—rather like the one he is in. “Singin’ in the Rain” (1952) features Gene Kelly as a silent-movie idol who risks career oblivion with the advent of sound. What does he do? He invents the musical, of course.

> **Tinseltown**：星光熠熠之城（好莱坞）
>
> **peculiarity**：特点；特性；怪癖；性状
>
> **ridicule**:嘲笑；奚落；讥笑
>
> **protagonist**:主角；（比赛、斗争中的）主要人物；（政策、运动的）倡导者
>
> 网络主人公；领导者；正面人物
>
> **disenfranchised**：被剥夺公权的
>
> **escapist**：逃避现实的人
>
> **oblivion**:被遗忘；湮没；无意识状态
>
> **advent**：到来；（基督教）降临节
>

2 Some films are more plainly hagiographic. “Saving Mr Banks” (2013), a Disney film, set out to prove how wonderful Walt Disney was, with the help of Tom Hanks at his most avuncular. The Coen brothers depicted Hollywood as hellish for the titular screenwriter in “Barton Fink” (1991), but when they returned to their fictional studio, Capitol Pictures, for “Hail, Caesar!” in 2016, all was sweetness and light. Even Quentin Tarantino couldn’t help but produce an adoring (if bloody) love letter to his **trade** with “Once Upon a Time in…Hollywood” (2019).

> **plainly**: 清楚地；明显地；清晰地；简单明了地
>
> **Hagiographic:** 圣徒传记的 、理想化（或偶像化）的
>
> **Saving Mr Banks**: 大梦想家
>
> **avuncular**:像伯伯（或叔叔）似的；长辈风范的；慈爱的
>
> **hellish**:地狱般的；如恶魔的；地狱的;极不愉快的
>
> **titular** :名义上的；有名无实的；徒有虚名的；标题的
>
> **adoring**:热爱的；爱慕的；敬慕的；崇拜的
>

3 That is not to deny the harsh criticisms of the industry produced from within. Billy Wilder’s “Sunset Boulevard” (1950) is perhaps the best example: William Holden plays a writer whose association with an aged starlet ends with him face-down in a swimming pool. Humphrey Bogart also took on the role of a storyteller for “In a Lonely Place” (1950). His screenwriter is so jaundiced that, on becoming the suspect in a murder, he seems himself unsure if he is innocent. From Kirk Douglas’s brutal producer in “The Bad and the Beautiful” (1952) to Jack Palance’s exhausted actor in “The Big Knife” (1955), Tinseltown didn’t seem like a glittering place to be in the mid-20th century. Perhaps it was the gloomy mood of the post-war period, or the communist witch-hunts and the prospect of being blacklisted.

> **starlet**:渴望成名的年轻女演员
>
> **In a Lonely Place**：兰闺艳血
>
> **screenwriter**：编剧
>
> **jaundiced**:（尤指因以前的经历）有偏见的；患黄疸病的
>
> **witch-hunt**:（对被认为持不为社会所接受或危及社会政见者的）搜捕，政治迫害
>
> **tinseltown**：浮华城（对好莱坞的贬称或戏称）
>

4 “The Beta Test”, a new and wickedly funny satire, upholds this poison-pen tradition. Jim Cummings and P.J. McCabe, who co-wrote, co-directed and co-star in the film, were conscious of the legacy of those works as well as “The Player” (1992), which follows a paranoid movie executive. “‘Sunset Boulevard’ is such an ugly picture of Hollywood,” Mr Cummings says. “And ‘The Player’ was just as ugly as our film and it came out 30 years ago.” But for the creators of “The Beta Test”, ugliness was desirable. “We talked about not having that world be pretty. So much of Hollywood that we show is backstreets and chain-link fences,” Mr Cummings says. “We wanted to de-glamourise it as much as possible.”

> **satire**:讽刺；讥讽；讽刺作品
>
> **poison-pen**：中伤的；匿名诽谤的
>
> **paranoid**: 偏执狂；妄想症患者
>
> **de-glamourise**: make less glamorous or attractive.
>

5 “The Beta Test” tells the story of a Hollywood agent, Jordan (Mr Cummings), whose life, at first, appears as polished as his teeth. He is to be married in six days and is also intent on closing an important deal with a potential client. But things begin to unravel after he accepts a mysterious invitation to an anonymous sexual encounter. The private duplicity is a reflection of his public role, Mr Cummings says, with “the constant doublespeak, the constant lying”. The film explores “what it’s like to date someone who you’re watching lie all the time and how that affects your relationship.”

> **unravel**:（把缠或织在一起的线）解开；解体；崩溃；瓦解
>
> **duplicity** : 欺骗;口是心非；最佳情敌；表里不一
>
> **doublespeak**: 双言巧语；巧言令色；玄虚言词
>

6 The entertainment landscape has changed irrevocably in the last two decades with the advent of streaming services. As the film was released in Britain, negotiations were being conducted in Hollywood to avoid a strike of 60,000 workers who were demanding better wages and reasonable hours. These are the changes that Jordan is trying to navigate in the film. His company seeks to carve out a role for itself in “packaging content”—ie, assembling several stars for projects and collecting a fee for the work—which represents a shifting of roles from representation towards something more like production. (The practice recently led to a protracted dispute between the Writers Guild of America and major talent agencies.)

> **irrevocably**：不可逆转；注定；义无反顾地
>
> **representation**：描写; 描绘[正式]
>
> **protracted**：拖延的；延长的；旷日持久
>

7 Another significant change occurred with the #MeToo movement, which gained momentum in 2017 after several women came forward to accuse Harvey Weinstein, a producer, of sexual misconduct. The obnoxious Hollywood boss is no longer simply a figure of fun. Watching Jordan publicly yelling at his secretary in “The Beta Test” brings to mind  Kitty Green’s drama of 2019, “The Assistant”, in which an unseen executive berates, abuses and bullies his staff.

> **obnoxious**：令人作呕的，讨厌的
>
> **berate**:责骂
>
> **obnoxious**：极讨厌的；可憎的；令人作呕的
>

8 In recent years executives renowned for such hectoring behaviour have been sacked. Does Mr Cummings think any meaningful change has occurred? “Obviously Weinstein’s in prison but the support system that got this guy to where he was is still working. They’re still at the same companies…so no.” Perhaps Hollywood has never needed self-reflection more than it does today.

> **sack**:解雇，开除
>
> **hectoring**：虚张声势的
>

