---
description: Despite high prices, customers are lining up
---

# D579 The world’s biggest carbon-removal plant switches on
1 Shortly after 6pm on September 9th, the Orca carbon-capture plant, just outside Reykjavik in Iceland, switched on its fans and began sucking carbon dioxide from the air. The sound was subtle—a bit like a gurgling stream. But the plant’s creators hope it will mark a big shift in humanity’s interaction with the climate.

> **carbon-capture**：碳捕获
>
> **gurgling**：作汩汩声
>
> **Reykjavik**：**雷克雅维克（冰岛首都）**
>

2 Orca is, for now, the largest installation in the infant “direct air capture” industry, which aims to remove CO2 from the atmosphere. When sealed underground such CO2 counts as “negative emissions”—an essential but underdeveloped method for tackling global warming. To stop temperatures rising by 1.5°C or even 2°C above pre-industrial averages, as per the Paris climate agreement, hundreds or thousands of billions of tonnes of CO2 will have to be removed from the atmosphere in the second half of the century.

3 Currently, the only means of doing that is planting trees, an option that is not entirely without drawbacks. Trees burn in wildfires and can be cut down. When this happens, much of the carbon they store escapes. The Orca plant shows another way. Climeworks, the company that owns it, has developed chemical filters which snag CO2 when air passes through them. When heated they release the CO2 again, generating a stream of gas that is handed to another firm called Carbfix.

> **snag**：阻碍
>
> **Carbfix** ：冰島碳儲存公司
>

4 Carbfix pipes the gas to nearby wells, mixes it with water and pumps the resulting carbonated water into the bedrock. In Iceland that consists almost entirely of volcanic basalts, which contain minerals that react with carbon dioxide to form calcium carbonate, a white crystal that is the main ingredient in limestone. Thus, the full operation extracts CO2 from air and turns it to rock. Trials have shown that Icelandic basalts can sequester CO2 in solid rock within two years. Power comes from a nearby geothermal power station.

> Carbfix:“碳固定”计划
>
> **bedrock**：基岩、基本原理
>
> **basalt**：玄武岩（深色的火山岩）
>
> **calcium carbonate**：碳酸钙
>
> **limestone**：石灰岩
>
> **Sequester**：使...隔离
>
> **geothermal**：地热的
>
> 参考：
>
> “碳固定”(Carbfix)计划主管阿拉迪说：“所以基本上我们只是用二氧化碳制造苏打水。”用管线把这些气泡水输送到数公里远的区域，研究人员透过高压将气泡水注入地下1000米深的岩层中。这些气泡水填充岩层空隙，并开始发生凝固过程，意即当二氧化碳与玄武岩中的钙、镁和铁接触时发生的化学反应。
>
> 斯奈布琼斯多蒂尔说：“我们最初注入的几乎所有二氧化碳都在2年之内凝固。”据悉，一旦二氧化碳变成石头后，二氧化碳就能永远存在石头中。
>

5 One catch is volume. Orca will capture 4,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide a year, out of around 35bn tonnes produced by burning fossil fuels. Climeworks is “confident” it can reach millions of tonnes before the decade is out. (A previous, eye-popping ambition to grab 1% of emissions by 2025 is no longer on the cards.)

> **catch**:  难题；圈套
>
> **on the cards**：可能、very possible or likely.
>
> **eye-popping**:令人瞠目结舌的；令人瞠目的；令人眼花缭乱的
>

6 Another is cost. It costs Orca somewhere between $600-800 to sequester one tonne of carbon dioxide, and the firm sells offset packages online for around $1,200 per tonne. The company thinks it can cut costs ten-fold through economies of scale. But there appears to be no shortage of customers willing to pay the current, elevated price. Even as Orca’s fans revved up, roughly two-thirds of its lifetime offering of carbon removals had already been sold. Clients include corporations seeking to offset a portion of their emissions, such as Microsoft, Swiss Re (and The Economist), as well as over 8,000 private individuals.

> **offset**：抵消
>
> **ten-fold**：10倍
>
> **no shortage of**：不缺乏
>
> **rev**： (使)加速
>
> **Swiss Re**: 瑞士再保险公司
>
> **Private individual**
>
> private individual means a person or firm not holding any licence under these rules or a person not holding any office which empowers him to enter distillery for inspection etc.
>
> means a person who buys the transport services for a purpose other than the purposes of his/her professional activities.
>

7 Climeworks is not alone in having spotted the opportunity. Using different chemistry, Carbon Engineering, a Canadian company, is gearing up to switch on its own carbon-scrubbing facilities. It will take more than these pioneer engineers and financiers to build a gigatonne-sized industry. But the fans are turning.

> **gigatonne**：十亿吨级
>

