# D385 How to make a social safety-net for the post-covid world
1 After the Depression and the second world war, voters and governments in rich countries recast the relationship between the state and its citizens. Now the pandemic has seen the old rules on social spending **ripped up**. More than three-quarters of Americans support President Joe Biden’s $1.9trn stimulus bill, which is due in the Senate and includes $1,400 cheques for most adults. And in the budget on March 3rd Britain extended a scheme to pay the wages of furloughed workers until September, even as public debt hit its highest level since 1945 (see article). Such boldness brings dangers: governments could stretch the public finances to **breaking-point**, distort incentives and create **sclerotic** societies. But they also have a chance to create new social-welfare policies that are affordable and which help workers thrive in an economy facing technological disruption. They must seize it.

> Social expenditure comprises cash benefits, direct in-kind provision of goods and services, and tax breaks with social purposes. Benefits may be targeted at low-income households, the elderly, disabled, sick, unemployed, or young persons.
>

2 The past year has seen a wild experiment in social spending. The world launched at least 1,600 new social-protection programmes in 2020 (see article). Rich countries have provided 5.8% of gdp on average to help record numbers of workers. Government debts are piling up, but so far low interest rates mean that they are cheap to service. The public’s mood had already been shifting. Britons used to grumble that **layabouts** sponged off the welfare state; now they are more likely to say help is too **stingy**. Last year over two-thirds of Europeans said they supported a universal basic income (ubi), an unconditional recurring payment to all adults. Affluent professionals have had their gaze drawn to the working conditions of those who deliver food and look after the sick. The struggles of women who have dropped out of the workforce to care for children and the elderly have become impossible to ignore.

> N-COUNT[表不满]可数名词If you say that someone is a **layabout**, you disapprove of them because they do not work and you think they are lazy. 游手好闲的人
>
> Recurring payments, familiarly referred to as AutoPay, means the consumer has given permission for a retailer or merchant to deduct payments for goods or services each month from the consumer's bank account or to automatically charge his credit card in the amount due each month
>

3 The social safety-net in many rich countries was creaking before covid-19 struck. Modelled on the ideas of Otto von Bismarck and William Beveridge, it had often failed to cushion workers from globalisation and technological and social change. In 1999-2019 the number of Americans aged 25-54 outside the labour force grew by 25%, or 4.7m, over six times more than the number who received help from the main assistance programme for displaced workers. As health-care and pension costs soared in recent years, governments cut back support for working-age people. Between 2014 and 2018 Britain’s state-pension bill grew in real terms by £4bn ($5.8bn), even as the rest of its welfare budget shrank by £16.5bn. A dwindling share of middle-income jobs and the growth of the gig economy fuelled fears that labour markets were changing faster than flat-footed governments could.

> ADJ[表不满]形容词If you describe a person or action as **flat-footed**, you think they are clumsy, awkward, or foolish. 笨拙的
>
> **in a** **difficult or unexpected** **situation that makes you unable to move or react** **quickly or skilfully**
>

4 With the public and some economists cheering on, it is tempting for politicians to stoke the economy with more **ad hoc spending**, or put in place vast schemes such as ubi. Instead they need to take a measured, long-term view. The safety-net must be affordable. Tight budgets, not milk and honey, will define the 2020s. The annual deficit of big advanced economies was 4% of their combined gdp even before the pandemic—and much ageing is still to come. Already **bond yields** are rising again (see article). Social spending must flow quickly and automatically to those who need it—not, as in America, only during crises when a panicked government passes emergency legislation. And governments need to find mechanisms that cushion people more effectively against income shocks and joblessness without discouraging work or crushing economic dynamism.

5 The first step towards satisfying these goals is to use technology to make ancient bureaucracies more efficient. Postal cheques, 1980s mainframe computers and **shoddy** data need to be relegated to the past. In the pandemic many governments temporarily **short-circuited** their existing systems because they were too slow. In Estonia and Singapore digital-identification systems and a disdain for form-filling became an asset in the crisis. More countries need to copy them and also to ensure universal access to the internet and bank accounts. The call for efficient administration may sound like tinkering but one in five poor Americans eligible for wage top-ups fails to claim them. **Nimbler** digital-payment systems will reduce the need for costly universalism as a fail-safe, and allow better targeting and quicker response times. Digital systems also permit the emergency option of making temporary cash payments to all households.

> V-T及物动词If someone or something **short-circuits** a process or system, they avoid long or difficult parts of it and use a quicker, more direct method to achieve their aim. 简化(某一流程或程序)
>
> N-UNCOUNT不可数名词If you feel **disdain** **for** someone or something, you dislike them because you think that they are inferior or unimportant. 轻蔑
>
> ADJ[usu ADJ n]形容词Something that is **fail-safe** is designed or made in such a way that nothing dangerous can happen if a part of it goes wrong. 有故障保险功能的; 有自动防障功能的
>

6 That is the easy part. Balancing generosity and dynamism is harder. Part of the solution is to top up the wages of low-paid workers. Anglo-Saxon countries have done this well since reforms in the 1990s and 2000s. But wage top-ups are of little use to the jobless and are often scant compensation for people who lose good jobs to forces beyond their control. Paltry support for the unemployed in Britain and America preserves incentives to work but at high human cost. The **sparsity** of social insurance has undermined political support for creative destruction, the catalyst for rising living standards. Continental Europe tends to underwrite traditional workers’ incomes more generously. But the distortion of incentives leads to higher unemployment and divisions between **coddled** insiders and a **precariat**. Both sides of the Atlantic lack a permanent safety-net that insures gig workers and the self-employed.

7 There is one country that combines labour-market flexibility with generosity:
Denmark, which spends large sums—1.9% of gdp in 2018—on retraining and on advising the jobless. These interventions stop the unemployed from falling into dependency. The inadequacies of policies elsewhere are often glaring. Britain’s efforts have flopped. America’sz comparable spending is less than a 20th as large as Denmark’s, even though the few lucky beneficiaries of its “trade-adjustment assistance” earn $50,000 more in wages, on average, over a decade.

> **8 Bungee economics**
>
> For years social spending has favoured the elderly and an outdated safety-net. It should be rebuilt around active labour-market policies that use technology to help everyone from shopworkers who are victims of disruption to mothers whose skills have **atrophied** and those whose jobs are replaced by machines. Governments cannot  eliminate risk, but they can help ensure that if **calamity** strikes, people bounce back.
>
> -T/V-I[正式]及物动词/不及物动词If a muscle or other part of the body **atrophies**, it decreases in size or strength, often as a result of an illness. (肌肉或身体其他部分)萎缩
>
> N-VAR[正式]有变体名词A **calamity** is an event that causes a great deal of damage, destruction, or personal distress. 灾难
>

