# D305-306 Sound engineers have better ways to trick listeners’ ears
> 这将有助于提高听众的体验
 > 

1 Human beings are good at locating the sources of sounds. Even when blindfolded, most people can point to within ten degrees of the true direction of a sound’s origin. This is a useful knack for evading danger. It is also an extraordinary cerebral feat. Partly, it is a matter of detecting minute differences of volume in each ear. Partly, it comes from tiny disparities in the time it takes a sound to reach two ears that are not equidistant from its source. The heavy lifting of sound-location, however, involves something else entirely.

> 人类擅长分辨声音的位置来源，但声音定位与之不同
>
> heavy lifting: difficult work
>

2 Audio buffs call it the head-related transfer function. A sound is modulated by the body parts it encounters before it reaches the eardrums. In particular, the various tissues of the head attenuate higher frequencies, weakening the top notes of sound waves that have passed to an eardrum through the skull compared with those from the same source that have arrived directly through the air. The cartilaginous ridges, troughs and protuberances of the outer ear also alter sound before it is transduced into nerve signals. Sounds arriving from different angles are therefore modified in consistent ways that the brain learns to recognise.

> N-COUNT[非正式]可数名词You use **buff** to describe someone who knows a lot about a particular subject. For example, if you describe someone as a film **buff**, you mean that they know a lot about movies. 爱好者
>
> 人的身体以及各组织会对经过的声音进行调节处理，大脑可以识别这种有迹可循的调节。
>

3 For all of their acoustic spatial awareness, however, brains can still be fooled by appropriate technology into believing a sound is coming from somewhere that it is not. That sounds like the basis of a big business. And it is.

> 某种技术可以使得大脑做出错误识别，这种技术能发展成一门大生意。
>

4 **Sounds good**
One way to simulate the “immersive” sound of reality through a pair of earbuds is by using a pair of recordings made with microphones embedded in the ear canals of a special dummy head. These heads are made to have the same shape and density as those of their flesh-and-blood counterparts. That means they modulate sound waves passing through them in a realistic manner. Recordings made using them therefore log what would arrive at the ear canals of someone listening to the sound in question for real. When they are played back, what a user hears recapitulates that experience, including the apparent directions from which the sounds are coming.

> 把耳机放入拟真人脑的耳道里面可以录制被调节过的声音。
>
> PHRASE[强调]习语You use **flesh and blood** to emphasize that someone has human feelings or weaknesses, often when contrasting them with machines. 血肉之躯
>
> V-T/V-I及物动词/不及物动词You can say that you are going to **recapitulate** the main points of an explanation, argument, or description when you want to draw attention to the fact that you are going to repeat the most important points as a summary. 概括
>

5 Dummy-based binaural recordings of this sort have been around for a while. But making them is clunky. It is also expensive. A good dummy head can cost $10,000, and time in a professional recording studio is hardly cheap. These days, though, the process can be emulated inside a computer. And that is leading to a creative explosion.

> have been around:  to have had experience of many different situations so that you can deal with new situations confidently
>
> 通过这种方法录制是很费钱的。最近的开创新发明是可以在电脑上模拟这个过程。
>

6 The trick that the emulator must master is a process called phase modulation. This involves retarding a sound’s high, medium and low frequencies by the slight but varying fractions of a second by which those frequencies would be delayed by different parts of the ears and head in reality. So writing the appropriate software starts by collecting a lot of data on how sound waves interact with a human head, and that means going back to the studio to conduct special binaural recordings, often using people instead of dummies. The resulting signals can then be decomposed into their component frequencies, which yields an understanding of how to modulate a given frequency to make it seem as if it is arriving from a particular location.

> 这一模拟器需要掌握相位调制这一技能。但首先需要录制大量的数据。
>

7 Demand for software to mix sound in this way has shot up says Lars Isaksson of Dirac Research, a firm in Uppsala, Sweden. Dirac developed its own version of such software, known as Dirac 3d Audio, by using a year’s worth of recordings it made that encompassed each degree of rotation, both side to side and up and down, around a listener’s head. This x provided, Mr Isaksson says, notable smoothness in the simulated movement of sound sources. Makers of video games are a big market for such stuff.

> 通过软件混合声音这种方法被急剧上升得使用？ 很多公司都开始了。 而对这一应用的巨大需求来源于视频游戏。
>

8 Dirac is not alone. Half a dozen other firms, including Dolby Laboratories of America and Sennheiser of Germany, also now make immersive software. To use it, a sound engineer employs a graphic interface that includes a representation of a sphere surrounding an icon representing the listener. The engineer uses a mouse to move sound channels—vocals, percussion and so on, if the product is music—to the points in the sphere from which their outputs are intended to originate. Software of this sort provides a way to take any recording and “project it in 3d”, says Véronique Larcher, co-director of Sennheiser’s division for immersive audio.

> immersive: 沉浸式的
>
> 很多公司比如杜比和森海塞尔也研发了立体声软件。
>

9 Sennheiser’s product is called ambeo. Dolby’s is called Atmos. This has generated the soundtracks of more than 20 video games and 2,500 films and television shows, as well as many pieces of music. Immersive sound may even come to videoconferencing. Dirac is promoting software that makes the voices of participants seem to emerge from the spots on the screen where their images appear. The software uses a laptop’s camera to track listeners’ heads. To those who look, say, left, it will sound as though their interlocutors are off to the right. Dirac is in talks with videoconferencing firms including BlueJeans, Lifesize and Zoom.

10 Facebook, a social-media company, is also designing “spatialised audio” for video calls that use its Oculus virtual-reality headsets. Ravish Mehra, head of audio research at Facebook Reality Labs, is coy about how long it will take his team to perfect the aural illusion that this is intended to create. But he says software the firm has in development can modify the frequencies and volumes of sounds so that they match the virtual surroundings chosen for a call, as well as the speaker’s perceived position. The acoustics of a beach, he notes, are unlike those of a room.

11 **Tin pan alley**
Such stuff is for the professionals. But amateurs can play too. For the man or woman in the street who wants to jazz up a record collection, many simpler programs now permit people to give a more immersive feeling to their existing recordings by running them through software that modulates the sounds of those recordings to achieve that end.

12 Programs of this sort cannot handle different parts of a recording differently in the way that studio-based systems manage, but they do create an illusion of sonic space around the listener. Isak Olsson of Stockholm, who has put together two such packages, 8d Audio and Audioalter, describes them as seeming to increase the size of the room. This helps to overcome a phenomenon known as the “in-the-head experience”. And, as Michael Kelly, head of engineering at Xperi, an immersive-software firm based in California, observes, sounds that appear to come from outside the head are more comfortable.

13 At the other end of the technological scale from such do-it-yourself kits, a number of firms, Dirac, Dolby, Facebook, Sony and Xperi among them, are working on a bespoke approach to sonic immersion. They are tailoring it, in other words, to an individual listener’s anatomy.

14 One method, that being used by Sony, is to ask potential customers to upload photographs of their ears. Another, which may be adopted by Xperi, is to repurpose data from the face-recognition systems that now unlock many people’s smartphones. If this way of thinking works, it will bring with it the ultimate in high fidelity. This is a recognition that, in the real world, even if what they are hearing is the same set of sound waves, every listener’s experience is different—and that this needs to be replicated in the world of recorded sound, too. With that realisation, acknowledgment of the head-related transfer function’s importance has reached its logical conclusion. And the term “headbanging” may take on a new and positive meaning.■

> N-UNCOUNT[usu N n]不可数名词**High fidelity** is the use of electronic equipment to reproduce a sound or image with very little distortion or loss of quality. 高保真
>
> **HRTF英文全名为Head Related Transfer Function，这是一种声音定位的处理技术，其原理非常复杂，由于声音会从耳廓、或肩膀反射到人耳内部，于是当我们用两个音箱模拟声音定位时，可以利用HD ITD的运算方式，来计算不同方向或位置声音所产生的大小和音调等，进而制造出立体空间声音定位的效果。另外HRTF除了使用HD ITD两种技术之外，还利用制作假人头拾音的技术，以推算出立体声音环绕模型，于是可以取得比HD ITD更好的声音效果。**
>

